URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-at-au/research-centers/digital-transformation-research-center-dtrc
CONTENT:
Digital Transformation Research Center (DTRC)
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Digital Transformation Research Center (DTRC)
Introduction
Vision and mission
Objectives
Key Research Areas
Constitution
Infrastructure & facilities
Introduction
The Digital Transformation Research Center (DTRC) was established in November 2020 to encourage researchers at Ajman University (AU) to pursue research excellence in the areas of digital transformation. DTRC also aims to establish and nurture research collaborations with international universities/institutes, thereby boosting research productivity, quality, and impact at AU.
DTRC researches at the intersection of digital technologies, business, and organizational transformation. DTRC emphasizes conducting interdisciplinary research, which will be carried out in a broad set of industries and sectors, including the public and private sectors.
Vision and mission
DTRC aims to become a leading center in the Arab region for impactful research on Digital Transformation.
Objectives
The objectives of DTRC are to:
•    pursue research excellence in digital transformation,
•    boost research productivity,
•    enable DTRC members to conduct research that leads to high quality peer-reviewed publications,
•    establish and nurture research collaborations nationally and internationally.
Key Research Areas
DTRC’s key areas of research include:
•    digital transformation in education
•    digital entrepreneurship
•    digital transformation in marketing
•    digital transformation in finance and accounting
•    digital supply chain transformation
•    digital innovation and transformation
Constitution
DTRC is constituted with the help of a multidisciplinary team comprising members drawn from several colleges of Ajman University. The Head of DTRC is a faculty member of AU’s College of Business Administration (CBA). Additionally, eight members are drawn from the CBA, while the College of Engineering & IT and the College of Mass Communication have one member each on the DTRC team. Apart from the above, two adjunct professors are also part of the DTRC team.
Infrastructure & facilities
The following infrastructure and facilities are available to members of DTRC to facilitate their research projects:
•    Computers and laptops with EndNote, SPSS, NVivo, subscription to Qualtrics - online platform for data collection
•    A conference center for research seminars, discussions, brain storming sessions; and space for external collaborators to conduct their research in a well-equipped environment.