URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/investigating-the-role-of-tangeretin-in-the-prevention-of-gastric-mucosal-lesions
CONTENT:
Investigating the Role of Tangeretin in the Prevention of Gastric Mucosal Lesions
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Investigating the Role of Tangeretin in the Prevention of Gastric Mucosal Lesions
The findings reported for the first time the gastroprotective actions of Tangeretin in gastric injury which were mediated via suppression of inflammation and oxidative stress, in addition to enhancing the antioxidant and cytoprotective defenses.
Researcher: Elshaimaa Arafa, Associate Professor, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences
Field of specialization
: Pharmacology
Summary
Tangeretin (TG), a polymethoxy citrus flavone, has attracted attention due to its significant antioxidant and anti‐inflammatory activities. It showed valuable pharmacological actions and protected against cancer, injuries induced by diabetes and liver and renal malfunctions. However, its antiulcer activity has not been investigated.
Our findings reported for the first time the gastroprotective actions of TG in gastric injury which were mediated via suppression of inflammation and oxidative stress in addition to enhancing the antioxidant and the cytoprotective defenses.
Research Impact
This project reported a novel therapy from a naturally occurring flavonoid to overcome gastric ulcer lesions and the underlying mechanism of its effect.
Such new approach for treatment will represent a great addition to gastric ulcer patients especially those who had to stop treatment due to its undesirable side effects.
Research outcomes
The work was presented as a poster in the conference of Experimental Biology 2019 held in Orlando, Florida, USA 6-9 April 2019. Poster title: “Tangeretin Protects against Ethanol-Induced Injury in Gastric Mucosa of Rats via its Antioxidants and anti-Inflammatory Activity”. The abstract was published in the FASEB journal (
Link
).