URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/health-services/medical-policy
CONTENT:
Medical Policy | Health Services | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Medical Policy
Ajman University Office of Medical Services welcomes new students and wishes them a successful study and good health. Medical services provided are as follows: -
The University is proud to have high quality health services available to its students.
For convenience and easy access, the medical clinics are located at
the Student Hub
, Ground Floor, and in
the female hostel
.
Our clinics provide the needed medical care, treatments, and follow-ups on daily basis.
The medical clinics are staffed with highly qualified practitioners and allied staff members who provide daily services with professionalism.
The university campus clinics service available daily from
9AM – 5PM from (Monday to Thursday): 9AM – 1PM on Fridays.
The hostel medical clinic service available
5PM – 9AM from (Monday to Saturday): 9AM – 9AM on Sundays
The Medical Clinics strive to make the campus a healthy and safe place to study, work and live.
Our Tasks:
Providing Free consultations and emergency care on daily basis, counselling & health care support
Screening & approving the medical checkup submitted by students.
All medical fitness certificates should be approved by the OMS before submission to office admission & registration to complete the students required documents.
"Announcement to All New Students"
notification is given during registration time.
This announcement explains that:
Students who miss lectures or exams for medical reasons have to present their medical reports in the university medical clinics
within 48 hours from the end of their sick leaves
.
The original sick leave is required
(not a copy).
Medical sick leaves should be approved first by the university medical doctor prior to submission to the college as a “medical excuse”.
Sick leaves can be issued from the university clinics or from outside healthcare facilities.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept