URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/admissions/non-degree
CONTENT:
Non-Degree | Admissions
Menu
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Non-Degree
Non-Degree Instructions and Information
Students interested in broadening their knowledge in a specific discipline, or upgrading their academic record without seeking formal admission to pursue a degree offered by Ajman University (AU), have now the opportunity to enroll as non-degree students. Approval for a non-degree status shall be based on course room availability and criteria for admissions and registration. A non-degree student’s credit-courses shall not count toward any degree and the non-degree student shall not qualify for any financial aid or scholarship.
Required documents:
Certificate of accredited Bachelor/ Master degree.
Photocopy of valid passport & residence visa
Photocopy of a valid Emirates ID Card
Medical Checkup
Passport-size photo
A certificate of proficiency in English language
Conditions for Non-Degree
Graduates of accredited program, with no current affiliation to an academic institution, who are simply interested in taking courses but do not plan to pursue a degree, shall be considered for admission as potential non-degree students
The applicants should complete the non-degree online application form for admission and provide all required documentations.
Registering courses under non-degree status requires compliance with all the course prerequisites
Coursework grades for non-degree students shall not count toward or against the previously earned undergraduate or graduate CGPA.
Applicants’ enrollment suitability might be subject to restrictions imposed by AU Colleges on some specific courses.
A college might cancel an initially offered course, at any time prior to the start of the semester, due to a minimum enrollment of students that have not been met.
Courses completed successfully by a non-degree student shall not automatically provide an eligibility status for admission to a future degree program.
There are limits to the number of courses and number of credit hours that can be registered by a non-degree student.
Non-degree undergraduate students can only enroll for a maximum of two semesters, with (no more than 17 credit hours per semester).
Non-degree graduate students might enroll for a maximum of two semesters with a limit of a total of 12 credit hours (no more than 6 credit hours per semester).
A non-degree student will not receive a degree
The applicant has to pay the tuition fees to register.
Download Application
Please sign the form before sending it back with the Required documents by email to the Admissions and Registration front desk staff
admissions.au@ajman.ac.ae
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept