URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/about/diversity
CONTENT:
Diversity | About
Menu
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
Diversity
AU is ranked 1st in the UAE for international students in the 2026 QS World University Rankings
We also received "Five QS Stars" -- the highest possible ratings -- for inclusiveness and social responsibility!
AU believes diversity is integral to academic excellence. We value and honor broad experiences, abilities, and perspectives. We strive to create a welcoming and respectful learning environment. We promote access, opportunity, and justice for all. AU’s campus is home to a rich mix of international faculty (from 39 different nations); a diverse student body (representing 72 different nationalities). AU’s vast network of 36,000 alumni resides in 48 different countries. The student experience at AU is one of innovation beyond borders!
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Download Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee
Diversity Committee Members
Dr. Sam Kuriadom, College of Dentistry, Chair,
Inas Abousharkh, Office of Information Technology, Co-Chair.
Dr. Guangming Cao, College of Business Administration, Member.
Dr. Gabriel Andrade, College of Medicine, Member.
Sara Al Zaabi, Office of Human Resources, Member.
Muna Alshamsi, Office of Strategic Communications, Marketing and Student Recruitment, Member.
Anjila Sitori, Office of Budget and Planning, Member.
Lateefa Almheiri, President of Female Student Council, Member.
Dr. Mohamed Al Faraa (student), College of Dentistry, Member.
Dani George Albadine, Peer Leader in the Deanship of Student Services. College of Business Administration, Member.
Ariba Sabah, College of Business Administration, Member and Rapporteur.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee mandate includes, but not limited to, the following:
Explicitly define AU goals for diversity, equity and inclusion and present to the Chancellor for approval.
In coordination with OIPE, develop policies and procedures to promote diversity, equity and inclusion at AU.
Identify the role of different units at AU to implement these policies and procedures and define their specific KPIs for assessment and continuous improvement.
Periodically monitor the implementation of these policies and procedures to ensure that the specified AU goals are met.
Submit an annual report on the achievement of the DEI Committee that also includes recommendations for further improvement.
Perform any other tasks that would enhance the effectiveness of the DEI Committee in achieving the specified goals.
Download Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan 2022 - 2027
Nationalities Represented
Did you know that Ajman University is one of the most diverse institutions of higher education on Earth? Our campus is home to more than 72 nationalities -- from Australia to Venezuela, Afghanistan to Uzbekistan, and Azerbaijan to the United States!
Accessibility for All Abilities
AU seeks to ensure that people of all abilities have access to spaces and places on campus. Accessibility was at the forefront of design when building the new Student Community Center, opening September 2018. Contact the facilities and service manager,
k.almetnawy@ajman.ac.ae,
for additional information.
Center For Inclusive Learning
Ajman University's
Center for Inclusive Learning
provides accessible, equitable, and inclusive academic experiences for students with self-disclosed disabilities.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept