URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/news/2022/ajman-university-professor-ranked-first-in-the-arab-world-in-mathematics-by-researchcom
CONTENT:
Ajman University Professor Ranked First in the Arab World in Mathematics by Research.com | Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Archive
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
RSS
Ajman University Professor Ranked First in the Arab World in Mathematics by Research.com
Friday, Feb 18, 2022
Ajman University is proud to announce that Prof. Shaher Momani has been ranked first in the Arab world and among the top 100 scientists globally in a ranking of the best 1000 scientists in mathematics by Research.com. A leading academic platform for researchers, Research.com has just released the first edition of its rankings of the top 1000 scientists in the field of Mathematics. This ranking system for scientists is based on a meticulous examination of more than 3707 scientists on Google Scholar and Microsoft Academic Graph.
The inclusion criteria for scholars to be considered into the ranking was based on a rigorous scrutiny of the h-index, the proportion of contributions made within the given discipline, in addition to the awards and achievements of the scientists. The stringent methodology of the rankings ensures that only the top 1% of leading scientists are considered into the ranking.
It is worth mentioning that Prof. Shaher Momani, Dean of the College of Humanities and Head of Nonlinear Dynamics research Centre (NDRC) at Ajman University, has been named among the top 2% scientists in the world by the prestigious Stanford University in the USA for the last two years.  The selection criteria were based on a rigorous methodology in which data was collected from the Scopus database of6.8 million prolific authors, out of which the top 100,000 were analysed.
Prof. Momani is a leading scientific researcher at Ajman University who has been at the forefront of research in the field of Fractional Calculus for the past two decades. His work on fractional differential equations is contributing to better knowledge in this field and enhancing the applicability of fractional differential models to predicting the behavior of real phenomena.
Back to All News