URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/admissions/graduate-transfers
CONTENT:
Graduate Transfers | Admissions
Menu
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Graduate Transfers
Eligibility for Transfer to AU
Graduate Students from accredited institutions of higher education who have not been subjected to academic or disciplinary dismissal may apply for admission to the AU Graduate programs. The University may transfer accredited courses to students who are transferring to a similar program.
Terms and Conditions of Courses Transfer:
The transferred student fulfills the requirements for full admission to Ajman University, (including a valid English language proficiency certificate with the required score for the program). In addition, does not allow, under any circumstances, transfer students to be admitted under the provisions stipulated for conditional admission.
The transfer student has been of good academic standing, i.e., their Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) is at least 3.0 on a scale of 4.0 or the equivalent.
The grade obtained on the previous course must be at least B (3.0 on a 4.0 scale), irrespective of the course status such as (Good, Very Good, etc……), or the grade that corresponds to “Merit/ Very Good” for institutions using a different grading scale.
The number of credit hours for the graduate course is not less than that of the AU equivalent graduate course.
The responsibility for approving the credit transfer lies with the college (Transfer Committee) that offering the program, provided that all administrative requirements are fulfilled.
The course content from the former educational institute should be similar to that of the corresponding course offered at AU.
The course is not a course of the Pre-Master Foundation Program.
AU does not grant credit twice for substantially the same course taken at two different institutions.
AU will not transfer courses from an awarded degree.
Only grades obtained from courses taken at AU will be considered in the calculation of a student’s CGPA, i.e.: grades obtained from transferred courses at the previous institution will not be considered in the computation of the CGPA at AU.
AU does not grant transfer students degrees unless they complete at least 75 percent of the total credit hours of the program including the majority of the final year courses at AU.
limits transferred credits for graduate programs to a maximum of 25% of the total credits required for the program.
The transfer of credits for clinical training is permissible only when done in the UAE.
The graduation projects and thesis are not subject to transfer.
For the Doctorate of Philosophy in Law program, course transfer can only be within two years after passing the course.
A transcript indicating the courses studied at the previous institution is required and it should be certified/attested by MOE, Transfer credit hours will be reported on the AU Transcript only when the Office of Registration receives the authenticity of the transcript from the former institution of the student and MOE.
Course descriptions for required courses must be stamped by the former educational institution and submitted to the Office of Registration.
The applicant must disclose his/her desire to transfer courses from the previous university during the admission stage at most, otherwise, he/she bears full responsibility if the transfer of courses is not accepted, or the response is delayed. For more information, you would be able to inquire via email
Click here
The transferred course will be marked in the transcript with the letter (T) only when the Office of Registration receives the required documents attested properly in addition to completing successfully the authenticity process.
The Office Registration has the authority to verify the accuracy of the academic records information from the previous educational institution.
The Ministry of Education will be contacted to ensure that the information for academic records issued outside the country is verified. In case of failure to receive positive feedback from MOE-UAE, pre-equated courses from the former educational institute must be registered at AU the following semester.
The decision to admit an applicant is made on a competitive basis, considering the number of available seats as determined by each college and the applicant’s final CGPA, priority is given to fresh graduates.
A fee will be charged for the evaluation of courses to be transferred. The fee will be refunded if the student is admitted only.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept