URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/academics/academic-programs-majors/programs/doctor-of-business-administration-dba
CONTENT:
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) Program at AU - Accredited by AACSB
Menu
Admissions
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Academics
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Colleges
Academic Programs and Majors
Academic Calendar
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE)
Academic Advising
Faculty Handbook
Policies and Procedures Manual
Teaching and Learning Center
International Academic Affairs
Library
Research
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
Research at AU
DRG Councils
Research Centers
Publications
Research Ethics Committee
Info for Research Collaborations
Graduate Studies at AU
Research Policies and Procedures
Research News
Research Spotlight
Student life
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Media
News
Events
Media Report
AU Roundup
From the Desk of the Chancellor
About
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
Total # of Credit hours
60
Welcome Message
Thank you for taking the time to visit our webpage and learn more about our Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) program at the College of Business Administration (CBA) at Ajman University (AU). We are pleased to announce that our program has recently received the AACSB accreditation, making it one of only five doctorate programs in the UAE to earn this prestigious recognition.
Our DBA program, which was launched in the Fall of 2019-2020, addresses a significant need in the market for active professionals who seek to combine in-depth knowledge with practical skills in order to enhance their managerial and leadership abilities. We strive to equip our graduates with the necessary expertise and confidence to become future leaders in the ever-changing and challenging business landscape, both locally and globally.
The program is structured around 60 credit hours, divided into two phases. The first phase, called Taught phase, consists of 36 credit hours spread across four semesters, with each semester comprising three courses worth three credit hours each. The second phase, known as the Dissertation phase, accounts for 24 credit hours.
During the Taught Courses phase, our program offers candidates the option to choose between two tracks based on their current and potential career goals. The Management track is designed to support professionals who aim to advance their careers and acquire advanced skills and knowledge, while the Education track caters to those who may be interested in transitioning into an academic career.
Our program is guided by three core principles: practicality, innovation, and impact. We ensure that our courses are practical in nature, reflecting the real challenges faced by our DBA candidates in their professional lives. We also incorporate the latest innovative methodologies and utilize comprehensive digital resources, including academic and business databases such as EBSCO, ScienceDirect, Sage, Emerald, Refinitiv Eikon/Datastream, BoardEx, and specialized software like SPSS, EViews, Nvivo, and Expert Choice/AHP. These resources can be accessed remotely, making our program one of the best in the UAE in terms of utilizing international resources.
Furthermore, we have established multiple partnerships with renowned universities in the UK, USA, and Germany. For example, we have an active Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Cardiff Business School in the UK, which is ranked among the top 200 universities worldwide according to QSWUR and is part of the prestigious Russell Group.
At AU, we are committed to creating an outstanding educational experience for leading professionals, as well as making a positive impact across markets. Our program aligns with the university's vision of being one of the leading institutions in the Arab world, known for its cutting-edge learning environment, impactful research, responsible outreach, and community engagement.
I highly encourage you to explore the valuable materials available in our DBA program, which provide further insights into our curriculum, faculty, and the unique opportunities we offer.
Should you have any questions or require additional information, please feel free to reach out to us. We look forward to welcoming you to our esteemed DBA program at Ajman University.
Prof. Tamer Elshandidy
Director of Graduate Programs
Program Overview
The DBA represents an exciting new opportunity for those with the talent and determination to succeed, wish to advance their management or consulting careers, or transition to teaching in an academic setting. The DBA program will prepare students to advance in a variety of careers, including those in private and non-profit sectors, education, and government. Students will be prepared to think critically, solve problems, and compete in complex business environments.
DBA Brochure
DBA News
Students Publications
Testimonials
Program Mission
The DBA program trains students to become thought-leaders of management practice and creators of knowledge by engaging in applied research. With the aid of AU faculty, the DBA students will learn how to integrate management theory with practice and advance the field of evidence-based management.
Program Goals
PG 1
: To support students to develop and conduct a high-quality theoretical and applied research.
PG 2
: To equip practitioners with the potential to lead management practice.
PG 3
: To develop students’ body of business knowledge by communicating research findings as a scholar or a practitioner.
PG 4
: To support students to solve practical business problems through research.
PG 5
: To develop effective decision makers and qualified business educators.
Graduation Requirements
To qualify for the DBA degree, a candidate must
Complete a minimum of 60 credit hours toward the degree, including the credits of the Dissertation.
Successfully complete the course of study as specified in the degree plan, including the dissertation.
Successfully defend the dissertation as directed and approved by the Dissertation Committee.
A course may count toward the degree if the course grade is at least a “B.”
Admission Requirements
Entry requirements
1-      Candidates should have a master’s degree in business or related field from a recognized university with a minimum cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.00 on a 4.0 scale or its established equivalent.
2-      Candidates should have work experience of at least two years in the middle or senior management levels.
3-      English Language Eligibility: Candidates should achieve a minimum score of 79 Internet-based test (IBT) for the TOEFL, TOEFL (ITP) 550 or 6 of the IELTS (Academic) test, with the exception of candidates who have studied for Master's degree programs taught in English that required for admission an EmSAT score of 1400 or equivalent (e.g., TOEFL score of 79 (IBT) or TOEFL score of 550 (ITP) or 6 of IELTS (Academic) test).
General Instructions for Admission
For non-international students:
A completed and valid online application.
A Bachelor’s and Master’s degree, Attested from (MOE)
A Bachelor’s and Master’s transcripts, Attested from (MOE)
UAE Ministry of Education equivalency certificate for master’s degree issued by the foreign higher education institution.
A Certificate of a proficiency test in English such as Academic IELTS with band 6 as a minimum (or its equivalent)
Recent CV.
Two professional recommendation letters.
Evidence of relevant work experience
A photocopy of a valid passport with a residence visa
A photocopy of a valid UAE National ID
6 Passport-size photos
A valid certificate of good conduct issued by an official authority
Male applicants must provide status of UAE National Service
Medical Check-up.
For international students:
A completed and valid online application.
A Certified copy of the Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees.
A Certified copy of the Bachelor’s and Master’s transcripts.
Master's and Bachelor's Degree Equivalency Certificates from UAE (MOE) (Upon Acceptance).
A Certificate of a proficiency test in English such as Academic IELTS with band 6 as a minimum (or its equivalent)
Evidence on how the candidate will fund the degree (self-funded scholarship).
Recent CV.
Two professional recommendation letters.
Evidence of relevant work experience
A photocopy of a valid passport (valid at least for 6 months).
A photocopy of a valid UAE National ID (After Arrival).
6 Passport-size photos
A valid certificate of good conduct issued by an official authority
Medical check-up (After Arrival).
Invitation for Interview
Shortlisted candidates will be invited for an interview (in person or virtually) to determine final acceptance into the program. Details about the interview requirements will be provided to the shortlisted candidates.
Program Learning Outcomes
PLO 1
: Apply different research methods to analyze organizations and create new ideas through research questions that build on existing theory and are relevant to practice.
PLO 2
: Summarize and synthesize relevant theory and research on a given business issue.
PLO 3
: Develop effective and innovative global management decisions that are ethical and relevant to the local context.
PLO 4
: Communicate and defend original research findings orally through a formal research presentation.
Management Option:
PLO 5
: Critically analyze and assess research findings and their implications on solving management and leadership problems.
PLO 6
: Apply creative thinking in different aspects of business strategies, leadership, finance, and organizational development.
Education Option:
PLO 5
: Demonstrate a mastery of skills and knowledge required for university teaching and assessment of student learning.
PLO 6
: Apply advanced research methods that result in quality publication and knowledge development.
Program Structure and Credit Hours
The Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) degree requires the completion of 60 credit hours distributed according to the following plan:
Type of Courses
Credit/hour
1. DBA core courses
27
2. Elective courses
(Management / Education)
9
3. Dissertation
24
Total Credit Hours
60
Study Plan
Doctor of Business Administration Study Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)?
The DBA is a doctoral degree whose structure and program are adapted to the obligations of professional managers. Like the PhD it is a doctoral qualification, however, it is directly linked to the world of work. The primary goal of the DBA is to advance professional practice, preparing candidates to carry out research and to make a direct contribution to professional practice and/or policy in a workplace or wider industry context.
What is the tuition fee for DBA?
The tuition fee for the entire DBA program is AED 270,000.
Is the registration fee refundable?
The application and registration fee for DBA program is AED 2,000 (5% VAT will be added to the fees). The fee should be paid upon registration and this fee is not part of the tuition. The application and registration fee is non-refundable, except when the application is rejected in which case an amount of AED 1,700 will be refunded to the student.
Are there any scholarships or tuition fee concessions provided for the DBA program?
Scholarships may be awarded based on merit; criteria will be set by the selection committee on case to case bases. However, there are two definite scholarships:
Ajman University Employees scholarship: 30%
Ajman University Alumni scholarship: 20%
What is the timetable for the DBA classes?
The DBA classes will be held every Saturday and Sunday of the week.
How long does it take to acquire a DBA degree?
The DBA is generally acquired over a period of three to four years.
What will happen after I apply?
There is a thorough process of selecting the right candidates at Ajman University. Evaluation and assessment of applications may take from two to three weeks, after which shortlisted candidates will be contacted and invited for an interview.
Can I apply without having all of the documents?
You may apply without having all documents, but you need to know that the suitability of your application will be decided based on your documents. In some cases, if the candidate appears to be fulfilling all criteria but has not given a required document then he/she may be contacted by the office of registration to provide the missing document/s.
Apply Now!
For Enquiries on the DBA Program, Please Contact
Prof. Tamer Elshandidy, Director of Graduate Programs, College of Business Administration
Telephone: +97167056274
Email:
t.elshandidy@ajman.ac.ae
Manar Hamad, Post-Graduate Studies Administrator
Telephone: +97167056359
Email:
m.hamad@ajman.ac.ae
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept