URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/academics/center-for-continuing-education-and-enterprises-ccee
CONTENT:
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE) | Academics
Menu
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Colleges
Academic Programs and Majors
Academic Calendar
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE)
Academic Advising
Faculty Handbook
Policies and Procedures Manual
Teaching and Learning Center
International Academic Affairs
Library
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE)
Ajman University (CCEE)
is a leading provider of testing, training and professional development programs for individuals and corporate groups in UAE and the wider Gulf region. From January 2022 onwards, a new Enterprises Unit has been added to CCEE, which was earlier called the Continuing Education Center (CEC). The Enterprises Unit of CCEE will develop and manage business activities which will serve the needs of the community and businesses in Ajman and the wider UAE.
Enterprises Unit
As a first step, the Enterprises Unit will set up a healthcare clinic at the Sheikh Zayed Center (SZC) on campus, in order to cater to the healthcare needs of the community. A modern hi-tech facility, the clinic will provide advanced healthcare services to patients with the help of renowned specialists and experts in the healthcare sector.
The clinic will be followed by a number of other initiatives aimed at utilizing our state-of-the-art infrastructure to serve corporates and individuals across the UAE.
The Enterprises Unit will also contribute to the financial sustainability of Ajman University through utilising university’s facilities and resources.
Testing Unit
CCEE’s Testing Unit offers a wide range of tests and exams in many fields such as English language, Arabic language, Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Math and other fields related to schools and university students as well as graduates.
Training Unit
CCEE’s Training Unit offers a wide range of courses in the fields of Dentistry, IT, Business, Project Management and English as a foreign language. CCEE is approved by well-known global training and testing organizations.
Training Methodology:
Training Needs Assessment:
An assessment of training needs shall be conducted upon clients’ request to identify required courses that meet the organization’s business objectives
Pre-Assessment:
It is done to identify the gap between current and required skill sets and knowledge
Instructor-Led Training:
Our trainers use a variety of tools to enhance the effectiveness of training including presentations, discussion boards, practical cases, labs and much more
Post-Assessment
: A post-assessment is carried out to check the level of skills and knowledge gained after the training
Trainer’s Follow up
: Trainees have the right to ask the trainer any question by phone or email for up to 1 month after finishing the training.
List of Training Topics for Public:
Business and Management
Project Management
Finance, Auditing and Accounting
Information Technology
Information Security
Leadership and Soft Skills
Training of Trainers (TOT)
Strategic and Operational planning
Innovation, Creativity and Entrepreneurship
English as a foreign Language
Arabic for Non-Arabs
Special Education Courses
Dental Courses
Make-up and Beauty
Contact Info
Rami El Haija
Director, Continuing Education Center
Email:
r.haija@ajman.ac.ae
Tel: +97167055223
CCEE Website
Request Info
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept