URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/admissions/undergraduate-transfers
CONTENT:
Undergraduate Transfers | Admissions
Menu
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Undergraduate Transfers
How to transfer from your current institution to one of AU's undergraduate programs.
Students from accredited institutions of higher education may apply for admission to the AU program in the same field of study if they have been of good academic standing, i.e., their Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) is at least 2.0 on a scale of 4.0 or its equivalent, and if they have not been subjected to academically or disciplinary dismissal.
However, students who have not been of good academic standing (i.e. those with a CGPA of less than 2.0 on a scale of 4.0) but not been subjected to academically or disciplinary dismissal may be allowed to transfer only to programs in a field distinctly different from the one in which they were enrolled at the institution they previously attended. (Only the transfer of credited General Education courses may be considered).
Terms and Conditions of Courses Transfer:
The transferred student fulfills the requirements for full admission to Ajman University, (including a valid English language proficiency certificate with the required score for the program). In addition, does not allow, under any circumstances, transfer students to be admitted under the provisions stipulated for conditional admission.
The grade obtained on the previous course must be at least C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) or it's equivalent.
The number of credit hours for the course is not less than that of the AU equivalent course.
The course’s content from the former educational institute should be similar to that of the corresponding course offered at AU.
The responsibility for approving the credit transfer lies with the college (Transfer Committee) that is offering the program, provided that all administrative requirements are fulfilled.
AU does not grant credit twice for substantially the same course taken at two different institutions.
AU will not transfer courses from an awarded Bachelor's degree. However, transfer courses from a diploma degree may be applicable based on the dean's recommendation.
Only grades obtained from courses taken at AU will be considered in the calculation of a student’s CGPA, i.e.: grades obtained from transferred courses at the previous institution will not be considered in the computation of the CGPA at AU.
The transferred course will be marked in the transcript with the letter (T) only when the Office of Admissions and Registration receives the required documents attested properly in addition to completing successfully the authenticity process.
AU does not grant transfer students a degree unless they complete at least 50 % of the total credit hours of the program, including the majority of the last 30 credit hours of the program study plan at AU.
Limits transferred credits for Undergraduate programs to a maximum of 50% of the total credits required for the program.
The transfer of credits for clinical training is permissible only when done in the UAE.
The graduation projects and thesis are not subject to transfer.
A transcript indicating the courses studied at the previous institution is required and it should be certified/ attested by MOE, transfer credit hours will be reported on the AU Transcript only when the Office of Admissions and Registration receives the authenticity of the transcript from the former institution of the student and MOE.
Courses description for required courses must be stamped by the former educational institution and submitted to the office of Admission and Registration.
The applicant must disclose his/her desire to transfer courses from the previous university during the admission stage, otherwise, he/she bears full responsibility, for more information, you would be able to inquire via the email
Click here
The Ministry of Education will be contacted to ensure that the information for academic records issued outside the country is verified. In case of failure of receiving positive feedback from MOE-UAE, pre-equated courses from the former educational institute must be registered at AU the following semester.
The Office of Admission and Registration has the authority to verify the accuracy of the academic records information from the previous educational institution.
The decision to admit an applicant is made on a competitive basis, considering the number of available seats as determined by the each college and the applicant’s final CGPA, priority is given to fresh graduates.
A fee of AED 500 will be charged for the evaluation of courses to be transferred. The fee will be refunded if the student is admitted.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept