URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/office-of-student-life/student-clubs-and-organizations
CONTENT:
Student Clubs and Organizations | Office of Student Life | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Student Clubs and Organizations
Student clubs and organizations aim to refine students' talents, develop their skills and achieve effective communication with each other, by organizing many cultural, social and recreational activities. They provide students with the opportunity to develop their leadership personality, acquire time management skills, take responsibilities, and work in a team spirit. The Office of Student Life fully supports and guides students throughout this journey, and oversees these club and organizations’ formations, including:
Student Council:
It is the senior leadership student organization that represents the university students, leads their work throughout the whole academic year, voices their wishes and challenges, and participates in the strategic decision that supports the student journey at the university. The Student Council serves as the link between the student and the administration, and it conveys the vision of the university and its directions among students as well as discusses their issues and aspirations with the administration. The Student Council represents students at the student forums to discuss the programs and ideas that contribute to the development of students’ abilities and their pioneer role in the university and society. It also organizes many student events and activities. The Student Council consists of 16 male and 16 female students of different nationalities who are elected by their peers in accordance with the regulations approved by the Ministry of Education in the UAE, and through transparent elections that allow candidates to market their campaigns among students. The
Student Council elects
its leaders in its first official session after the general election.
Constitution of AU Student Council
Student Council members (Male) for the 2024-2025 academic year.
Student Council members (Female) for the 2024-2025 academic year.
Student clubs:
Student clubs attract students of all interests, cultures and aspirations. They represent a platform where many student achievements and initiatives arise. Student clubs play a vital role in enriching student life at Ajman University by organizing many cultural, social, recreational and scientific activities. There are around
139 clubs
on campus, which aim to develop students' skills, refine their talents and promote teamwork and volunteerism. Student clubs stem from cultures, hobbies and interests that bring students together. These clubs are:
Male Student Clubs
Female Student Clubs
Students can join any clubs by registering their membership on ORS.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept