URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/news
CONTENT:
News | 2025 | 1 | Ajman University | Ranked No. 6 in the UAE
Menu
News
Events
Media Report
AU Roundup
From the Desk of the Chancellor
2025 News
Yearly Archive
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
RSS
The Unit of Athletics Organizes “An Hour of Sports Activities” for Cleaners at Ajman Youth Centre
16 Jul
The Unit of Athletics Organizes “An Hour of Sports Activities” for Cleaners at Ajman Youth…
Ajman University Vice Chancellor Delivers Speaking Session on Energy Efficiency at UCN Decarbonization Academy Event
14 Jul
Mr. Rabi Al Khofash recently participated as a speaker at an event by the UAE…
Ajman University Vice Chancellor Rabi Alkhofash Highlights the Role of Academia in Advancing Real-World Sustainability at PMI MENA Webinar
11 Jul
Mr. Rabi Alkhofash, Vice Chancellor for Financial and Administrative Affairs at Ajman University, was recently…
Ajman University: Sole Middle East Recipient of Prestigious ICANN Grant to Develop Global Internet Security System
09 Jul
Ajman University: Sole Middle East Recipient of Prestigious ICANN Grant to Develop Global Internet Security…
Ajman University Ranks First in the UAE for “Partnerships for the Goals” and “Good Health and Wellbeing” and Among the Top 301–400 Globally in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025
09 Jul
Ajman University Ranks First in the UAE for “Partnerships for the Goals” and “Good Health…
The Unit of Athletics Organizes “An Hour of Sports Activities” for Smart Services Development Employees in Support of Health and Well-being
08 Jul
The Unit of Athletics Organizes “An Hour of Sports Activities” for Smart Services Development Employees…
Ajman University’s Researcher Receives Junior Innovator Award for Advancing Early PCOS Diagnosis in Women’s Health
30 Jun
Ajman University’s Researcher Receives Junior Innovator Award for Advancing Early PCOS Diagnosis in Women’s Health
Ajman University Signs MoU with the Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport
26 Jun
Ajman University Signs MoU with the Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport
Ajman University wins Campaign of the Year - Education at GovMedia Awards 2025
25 Jun
Ajman University wins Campaign of the Year - Education at GovMedia Awards 2025
Ajman University’s Athletics Unit Organizes Volleyball Tournament for Taxi Drivers to Promote Health and Well-Being
24 Jun
Ajman University’s Athletics Unit Organizes Volleyball Tournament for Taxi Drivers to Promote Health and Well-Being
1
2
3
Next
Last ›
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept