URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/office-of-student-life/athletics
CONTENT:
Athletics | Office of Student Life | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Athletics
The Unit of Athletics at the Office of Student Life organizes a variety of sports activities, events and programs throughout the year, and develops the students’ sports skills through individual and group games under the supervision of specialized trainers. Students are also encouraged to join the sports complex, which is equipped with state-of-the-art machines and tools. In addition to outdoor playgrounds, the sports complex features multi-purpose indoor lounges, a swimming pool and fitness gym. The Unit of Athletics is interested in spreading health awareness among students and maintaining their fitness, and seeks to create a stimulating environment that enhances their education and meets their sporting ambitions.
Sports Complex Operational Hours
Day
Female
Time
Male
Time
Monday
10:30 AM - 7:30 PM
12:00 PM - 10:00 PM
Tuesday
10:30 AM - 8:00 PM
10:00 AM - 10:00 PM
Wednesday
10:30 AM - 7:30 PM
12:00 PM - 10:00 PM
Thursday
10:30 AM - 8:00 PM
10:00 AM - 10:00 PM
Friday
9:00 AM - 7:30 PM
11:00 AM - 8:00 PM
Opens again at 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM
Saturday
10:00 AM - 7:00 PM
Closed
Sunday
Closed
12:00 PM - 8:00 PM
Sports Complex Facilities for Community
In addition to the comprehensive sports program for students, the University provides opportunities for the local community to participate in both recreational and competitive sports. The Sports Complex at Ajman University is home to athletes who compete at the highest levels, and to the wider external community. The Sports Complex provides access to the families of employees and partner schools, institutions and corporates.
Sports Complex Access for AU Staff Families:
AU faculty and staff can use the sports complex during the weekend. Access is granted as follows:
Saturdays for females only, from 10:00 AM to 7:00 PM.
Sundays for males only, from 12:00 PM to 8:00 PM.
AU Employee Card and valid Emirates ID for visitors should be provided at the Registration Desk.
The employee or faculty member can be accompanied by a maximum of two children (No children under 10, including infants, is allowed in the Sports Complex).
All users of the Sports Complex are required to adhere by the Sports Complex Instructions.
Sports Complex Bookings for Partner Institutions:
Based on the availability of staff and resources, the Sports Complex at Ajman University can be booked by partner institutions or organizations for an approved number of hours. This service is free of charge and is based on the Management approval.
Please contact Sports Complex reception to check the booking process and availability.
For further information on Rules and Policy & Procedure for Sports Complex, please contact sports complex reception on
Female Sports Complex reception Office: 06 7056879
Male Sports Complex reception Office: 06 7056878
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept