URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/privacy-policy
CONTENT:
Privacy Policy
Menu
Admissions
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Academics
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Colleges
Academic Programs and Majors
Academic Calendar
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE)
Academic Advising
Faculty Handbook
Policies and Procedures Manual
Teaching and Learning Center
International Academic Affairs
Library
Research
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
Research at AU
DRG Councils
Research Centers
Publications
Research Ethics Committee
Info for Research Collaborations
Graduate Studies at AU
Research Policies and Procedures
Research News
Research Spotlight
Student life
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Media
News
Events
Media Report
AU Roundup
From the Desk of the Chancellor
About
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
Privacy Policy
Collection of Information
Upon visiting AU website or the AU Connect application, the servers automatically record information of the website user’s browser, such as the device’s IP address, requested URL, referring URL, language preferences, access dates and times, software information (e.g. browser type and version, operating system type and version, etc.), Internet access domain name, and other statistics.
In using specific features, such as web forms, on AU website, the user may be asked to provide certain personal information, such as name, address, and email address, that may be needed to respond to future  inquiries, or subscribe the user to updates. In other words, the provided information will be used only to fulfill user’s request(s), and to allow AU to contact the website user if there are any problems with the user’s request. AU will not share, sell or exchange website user’s email address and other provided personal information to third parties.
Location Data
AU Connect app uses your location data to provide more customized services and enhance your user experience. Your location information is NOT shared with others, nor is it used by any third party for any marketing purposes whatsoever.
Cookies
Cookies are short text files that are stored on the website user’s computer and used to recognize browser session, save preferences, and analyze site traffic and site interaction. AU website uses cookies as well as Google Analytics that gathers anonymous statistics related to the website user’s browsing behavior to optimize  online experience. The website user may disable cookies through the individual browser options, however, this may result in reducing certain functionality and features of AU website, and diminishing your site experience.
Information Protection
AU may use and analyze the collected information to improve its services. AU stores website user’s personal information on secure servers and in an encrypted format, and uses technical and organizational security measures to protect them from misuse, loss, alteration or any unauthorized access. Data collected will not be provided to third parties. However, no method of transmission over the Internet or electronic storage can be guaranteed to be 100% secure. Therefore, while AU strive to protect website user’s personal information, the website user acknowledges that there are privacy and security limitations of the Internet which are out of AU’s control.
AU website may contain links to third-party sites. AU does not have control over the privacy practices or the content of these websites. Please review the privacy policies published by these third-party websites.
Policy Acceptance
The website user acknowledges the reading of this Policy and agrees to all its terms and conditions. By continuing to use this website, the website users are consenting to AU’s collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy.
Additional Information
If a website user has any queries about the above Privacy Policy and would like to contact an AU representative regarding any matter relating to the privacy of personal information,  may send an email to “inquiry@ajman.ac.ae”.
Release from liability
The user releases and forever discharges Ajman University and its affiliates, successors, officers, workers, representatives, partners, agents and anyone claiming through them (collectively, the “Released Parties”), from all claims, liability, damages, losses, and expenses, including attorney’s fees, howsoever the same maybe caused by any reason whatsoever arising or alleged to have arisen directly or indirectly out of the use of the .ajman.ac.ae, or using of his/her information or personal data according to this Policy.
Miscellaneous
Ajman University reserves the right to make changes to its Policies at any time and for any reason. The updated Policy will be deemed to have been delivered, received, and known by all website users one day after posting the updated Policy on the website. The users shall comply with the updated Policy since its effective date.
This policy shall be in effect as of 13th October 2021.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept