URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-at-au/drg-councils
CONTENT:
DRG Councils | Research at AU
Menu
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
DRG Councils
COUNCIL OF GRADUATE STUDIES AND COUNCIL OF RESEARCH
The Council of Graduate Studies and Council of Research was established under the Deanship of Research and Graduate Studies (DRG) with the mandate of developing policies and procedures for significantly enhancing the quality, relevance, volume, and impact of research carried out at AU and for enhancing the effectiveness of existing graduate programs and providing assistance in the development of new graduate programs. It shall take all necessary steps to promote research and graduate studies at AU.
Council of Research
The purpose of Council of Research is to develop policies and procedures to significantly enhance the quality, relevance, volume, and impact of research carried out at Ajman University. The Council of Research comprises of one faculty member from each academic college in Ajman University. The Council of Research members chair the College Research Committees (CRC’s) in their respective colleges.
Prof. Kamran Arshad
(Chair)
Dean of Research and Graduate Studies
Prof. Abdelsalam Salmi
College of Law
Dr. Fadi Jaber
College of Engineering and IT
Dr. Maha Abdulmageed Attia
College of Mass Communication
Dr. Abd Al Karim Haj Ismail
College of Humanities & Basic Sciences
Dr. Sam Thomas
College of Dentistry
Dr. ElShaima Arafa
College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences
Dr. Musab Omer
College of Medicine
Dr. Gamal El Samanoudy
College of Architecture, Arts and Design
AU RESEARCH ETHICS COMMITTEE (AUREC)
Ajman University Research Ethics Committee (AUREC) has been formed under the DRG to ensure that research work involving human or animal objects follows specified University guidelines. The guidelines and procedures developed by AUREC are in accordance with all applicable national and international standards. The Dean of Graduate Studies and Research shall appoint the Head of AUREC with the approval of the Vice-Chancellor for Academic Affairs (VCAA).
All research work conducted at AU that requires ethical approval of the research project must obtain a Certificate of Ethical Clearance (CEC) from the AUREC before initiating the project. This requirement is applicable to both funded and non-funded projects.
Dr. Gabriel Andrade  (Head of REC)
College of Medicine
Prof. Chris Enyinda
College of Business Administration
Dr. Amine Bahi
College of Medicine
Dr. Laroussi Chemlali
College of Law
Dr. Nihal Abdallah
College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences
Dr. Elias Berdouses
College of Dentistry
Dr. Dalia Bedawy
College Humanties and Basic Science
Dr. Ahmed Awan
College of Engineering and IT
Dr. Raghad Hashim
College of Dentistry
Dr. Shaymaa Omar
College of Mass Communication
Dr. Simy Mathew
College of Dentistry
Dr. Naglaa Sami
College of Architecture, Arts and Design
COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES (CGS)
Council of Graduate Studies
The purpose of the Council of Graduate Studies is to propose and implement the uniform guidelines for all graduate programs offered at AU, make proposals to enhance the effectiveness of existing graduate programs, to assess the suitability of new graduate programs and promote AU graduate programs locally, regionally and internationally. The Council of Graduate Studies comprises of one representative from each college offering at least one graduate program. It may also include one representative graduate student as an observer without active participation
Prof. Kamran Arshad
(Head)
Dean of Research & Graduate Studies
Prof. Tamer El Shandidy
College of Business Administration
Dr. Najlaa Flayyih
College of Law
Dr. Mohamed Jaber
College of Dentistry
Dr. Mohammad  Arar
College of Architecture, Arts and Design
Dr. Sanah Hasan
College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences
Dr. Mohamed Al Betar
College of Engineering and IT
Dr. Sang Lee
College of Mass Communication
Dr. Soumaya Abdellatif
College of Humanities and Sciences