URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/about/mission-vision-and-values
CONTENT:
Mission, Vision and Values | About
Menu
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
Mission, Vision and Values
Ajman University’s Mission, Vision and Core Values are rooted in a firm commitment to excellence, innovation and social responsibility.
Mission
Ajman University (AU) is an independent, comprehensive, non-profit, multicultural academic institution that offers a broad range of high quality and relevant undergraduate and graduate academic programs. The University strives to fulfil the needs of students, alumni, employers, and society through a learner-centric development journey, quality education, hands-on experience, research and community engagement. AU develops well-rounded, career-ready graduates who are professionally competent, socially responsible, innovative and active contributors to the sustainable development of the UAE and beyond.
Vision
Ajman University aims to be internationally recognized as one of the leading universities in the Arab world for its cutting-edge learning environment, innovative career support, impactful research, responsible outreach and community engagement.
Core Values
EXCELLENCE
All AU activities are conducted with strong emphasis on outstanding quality standards.
INTEGRITY
AU adheres to the principles of honesty, trustworthiness, reliability, transparency and accountability.
INCLUSIVENESS
AU embraces shared governance, inspires tolerance, and is committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
AU promotes community engagement, environmental sustainability and global citizenship. It also promotes awareness and support for the needs and challenges of the local and global communities.
INNOVATION
AU supports creative activities that approach challenges and issues from multiple perspectives in order to find solutions and advance knowledge.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept