URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-strategy/vision-mission-and-goals
CONTENT:
Vision, Mission and Goals | Research Strategy | Research at AU
Menu
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
DGSR Vision, Mission and Goals
The Deanship of Research and Graduate Studies (DRG) is dedicated to fostering a culture of research at all academic levels – from first-year students to tenured professors.
The Deanship of Research and Graduate Studies is committed to promoting excellence in graduate studies and research through its well-defined policies, efficient procedures and funding mechanisms as well as support for developing effective partnerships and collaborations with academic and non-academic institutions locally, regionally and internationally.
Vision
The Deanship of Research and Graduate Studies will achieve worldwide recognition of excellence for Ajman University’s graduate programs, research and scholarly work by providing strategic leadership and comprehensive support to faculty, graduate students, and the external community.
Mission
The Deanship of Research and Graduate Studies is committed to promoting excellence in graduate studies and research through its well-defined policies, efficient procedures and funding mechanisms as well as support for developing effective partnerships and collaborations with academic and non-academic institutions locally, regionally, and internationally.
Goals
Ensure consistency and compliance of all graduate programs with relevant policies.
Foster a vibrant and stimulating research ecosystem at the University.
Increase the number of faculty members publishing in peer-reviewed high-quality journals.
In collaboration with colleges and departments, define research targets and extend support to achieve these targets.
Continually enhance the quality and relevance of existing graduate programs.
Encourage initiation of new graduate programs reflecting global trends and catering to local and regional market needs.
Develop and implement an effective internal funding mechanism to provide research grants to faculty in all colleges.
Provide opportunities to faculty to obtain external research grants and nurture partnerships with organizations and businesses.
Assist colleges in recruiting outstanding graduate students through graduate scholarships and awards from internal as well as external sources.
Encourage interdisciplinary research among various colleges and departments.
Enhance the research culture in AU by organizing Annual Students Research Day and other activities including research awards for outstanding faculty and students.
Assist colleges in organizing national and international scientific conferences.
Assist and oversee the operation of College Research Committees in all colleges to promote and encourage interdisciplinary research activities among colleges.
Promote the culture of research at both undergraduate and graduate level.
Cooperate with colleges in developing joint graduate programs with international academic institutions.
Develop, periodically assess, and modify policies and procedures to continuously enhance the quality of research and graduate programs at AU in order to meet international quality standards and achieve excellence.