URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/deanship-of-student-services
CONTENT:
Deanship of Student Services | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Deanship of Student Services
The Deanship of Student Services initiates and manages co-curricular life at AU
The Deanship of Student Services (DSS) is a student-centered office and a key component of Ajman University. It seeks to enhance students’ capabilities by building an inclusive, diverse, safe, and wellness-promoting environment that transforms students to lifelong learners capable of overcoming market challenges and becoming successful and creative citizens in the global community.
The DSS provides resources dedicated to students through various offices such as:
Student Life office
Students Housing office
Counseling Unit
Student Success center
The DSS encourages student growth, exploration, and achievement by supporting and advising select student organizations, and mentoring individuals to help them become thoughtful and successful leaders.
The main goals of the Deanship of Students Services
Support students' learning and academic success.
Offer opportunities that foster students’ assimilation, engagement,well-being and personal development.
Enhance community partnerships for effective, seamless student services and experiences.
Build a community that fosters a safe, inclusive, and respectful living and learning environment.
Promote technologically innovative support services.
The Dean of Student Services is Dr. Nahla Al Qasimi. She received a Master's Degree in Architecture and a Ph.D. in Town Planning from Cairo Unviersity. In addition to her duties as the Dean of Student Affairs, Dr. Al Qasimi is an assistant professor in the College of Architecture, Art and Design.
AU Orientation Week Fall 2024
DSS Newsletter
IFEMH 2023
IFEMH 2024
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept