URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/residence-life-and-housing/residents-guidelines
CONTENT:
Residents Guidelines | Residence Life and Housing | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Residents Guidelines
All residents are required to adhere to the following guidelines :
Make sure all the data and documents you provide are true and clear.
Read the university housing regulations carefully and agree to them before booking.
Comply with room-shifting regulation as per the rooms availability and the financial policy.
Maintain the room and its furniture clean and undamaged.
Neither make noise nor use any audio gears in a way that may disturb other residents.
Keep your valuable belongings safe, the Office of Student Housing shall not be liable for any lost property.
Comply with the leave permission procedure (Female students only).
Healthy and safety environment with appropriate services for students of determination:
A comprehensive Evacuation Mock Drill Plan is displayed in each room/floor, as requested by the General Directorate of Civil Defense in Ajman, to properly address the emergency procedure needs of the disability community. Residents receive periodic training to exercise caution when using safety equipment.
The fire extinguishing equipment is available in compliance with the international safety standards.
The Student Hostel is designed to ensure appropriate access for students of determination. For instance, there are specific rooms for them as well as accessible routes, curb ramps, and wheelchair accessible units, including parking and passenger loading zones, and elevators.
An emergency evacuation chair is provided at the main entrance and near the staircase to properly address the emergency procedure needs of the disability community.
Forbidden items inside the Residence
All residents are prohibited from doing the following inside the Residence:
Bringing pets and birds and giving food to stray animals.
Bringing or consuming tobacco, shisha/hookah, alcohol or drugs.
Using incents or candles.
Dressing indecently outside your room.
Receiving external visitors in your room is not allowed.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept