URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-at-au/research-centers/nonlinear-dynamics-research-center-ndrc
CONTENT:
Nonlinear Dynamics Research Center (NDRC)
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Nonlinear Dynamics Research Center (NDRC)
Introduction
NDRC Vision & Mission
NDRC Publications
NDRC Objectives
NDRC Members
Research Groups
Adjunct Research Associates (ARA)
Collaboration with other Research Groups and Centers
External & Internal Grants
International Collaborators
NDRC Activities
Introduction
The Nonlinear Dynamics Research Center (NDRC)
at Ajman University is at the forefront of groundbreaking research, exploring the complexities of nonlinear dynamical systems and their diverse applications.  NDRC aims to be a creative and innovative leading research center, internationally recognized for excellence in its specialized research domains. With a firm dedication to advancing knowledge in nonlinear dynamics, NDRC has been established to provide an optimal environment for research, aiming to attract top-tier scientific researchers in theoretical and practical aspects in the area of Applied Mathematics.
NDRC Vision & Mission
Vision
To become a leading research  center in the Arab region in Nonlinear Dynamics systems with applications to several fields by making impactful research contributions.
Mission
To strengthen the research culture through the delivery of quality services based on the latest technology.
NDRC Publications
Journals
Chapter Books
Conferences
NDRC Objectives
The primary objectives of NDRC are:
Conduct cutting-edge research in all fields of Applied Mathematics.
Provide a professional management, coordination and quality service in order to successfully carry out research activities.
To collaborate with external entities and partners in research projects and teaching.
To organize local/international events such as conferences, workshops and tutorials.
Intensify the coordination of research information efficiency.
Attract leading international scholars and creative researchers to interact with undergraduate and postgraduate students and academic staff within the AU and throughout the world through conferences, colloquia, scholarly publications, workshops, teaching programs and exchanges and collaboration.
Fulfilling AU aim of becoming the premier Research University with highly international rank.
NDRC Members
Head of NDRC
Shaher Momani
Distinguished Professor
s.momani@ajman.ac.ae
0547617772
AIRC Members
Atef F. I. Abdelkader
Head of Mathematics and Science Department
a.abdelkader
@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 6324
Samir Hadid
Professor
k.arshad@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 6464
Samer Husni Abdel Razzaq Zyoud
Senior Lecturer
s.zyoud
@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 6439
Mudassar Imran
Associate Professor
mudassar.imran@ajman.ac.ae
Hanine Antouan Bou Antoun
Senior Lecturer, Director of Office of International Academic Affairs
h.bouantoun@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 6681
Kareem Taha Elgindy
Associate Professor
k.elgindy@ajman.ac.ae
Research Groups
The following research groups within the NDRC will conduct fundamental and applied research in the respective subject areas:
1-
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation Group (MMSG):
Mathematical Modelling is the art of using mathematics to describe natural processes. Simulation solves the mathematical models thus developed using computers to make quantitative predictions. In the Mathematical Modelling and Simulation Group (MMSG), we focus on fundamental research in the latest mathematical models, and mathematical and computational techniques to quantitatively analyse and understand in depth problems in science and engineering. Collaboration is developed with the well-established universities and institutes worldwide as well as with industrial corporations worldwide.
2
- Nonlinear Circuits and Systems (NonCiSys) Research Group:
The NonCiSys research group is dedicated to exploring cutting-edge developments, breakthroughs, and innovative applications within the realm of nonlinear circuits and systems. The group places special emphasis on various research areas, including memristor-based circuits, nonlinear oscillators, circuits for artificial intelligence and machine learning, chaos-based applications, and advanced nonlinear signal processing techniques.
3-
Novel numerical methods for handling linear and nonlinear initial value problems:
The research group specializes in developing innovative numerical methods tailored for the resolution of both linear and nonlinear initial value problems. Their work focuses on advancing computational techniques to enhance accuracy and efficiency in solving mathematical models, spanning various domains. With a commitment to novel approaches, the group aims to contribute to the evolution of numerical solutions for a wide range of scientific and engineering applications.
4-
Computational Modeling and Scientific Simulation (CMSS)
The Computational Modeling and Scientific Simulation (CMSS) group focuses on developing advanced mathematical models and computational techniques to simulate complex systems across various scientific disciplines. Our research encompasses the design and implementation of numerical algorithms, computational methods, and simulation frameworks to address real-world challenges in physics, engineering, biology, and beyond. By integrating theoretical insights with practical applications, we aim to advance the field of computational and numerical methods through innovative algorithms, high-performance computing, and rigorous numerical analysis, ultimately achieving impactful research outcomes.
5
- Nonlinear Dynamics and Control  Research Group:
(NDCRG)
This is an interdisciplinary research group. The main goal of the group is to carry out research in
theoretical and practical aspects in the area of nonlinear dynamics and control.
The specific areas of interest are:
nonlinear dynamical systems
behavioral systems and convolutional codes
calculus of variations
fractional calculus
special functions
optimal control and its applications to epidemiological models
time scales calculus
Adjunct Research Associates (ARA)
Name
Affiliation and Position
AU Title
Prof. Tasawar Hayat
Department of Mathematics, Quaid-I-Azam University, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
Adjunct Research Professor
Dr. Mohammed Al-Smadi
College of Commerce and Business,
Lusail University, Lusail, Doha, Qatar
Adjunct Research Professor
Dr. Praveen Agrawal
Department of Mathematics, Anand International College of Engineering, Jaipur, Rajasthan-303012, India
Adjunct Research Professor
Dr. Iqbal Batiha
Department of Mathematics, Al Zaytoonah University of Jordan, Amman, 11733, Jordan
Adjunct Research Associate
Prof. Ishak Hashim
Department of Mathematical Sciences, Faculty of Science & Technology, UKM, 43600 UKM Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia
Adjunct Research Professor
Collaboration with other Research Groups and Centers
Collaboration with COMSATS University (COMSATS),
Pakistan
.
Collaboration with the University of Jordan,
Jordan.
Collaboration with Constantine 2 University,
Algeria
.
Collaboration with Mutah University ,
Jordan
.
Collaboration with University Sains Malaysia  Research Group,
Malaysia.
Collaboration with Al Istiqlal University,
Palestine
.
Collaboration with Kyoto University, Kyoto,
Japan.
Collaboration with Ton Duc Thang University,
Vietnam.
External & Internal Grants
External Grants
External Grants
N
Institution / company
Project start
End of project
Prof. Shaher Momani
1
Microsoft
1/03/2021
31/05/2023
Prof. Samir Hadid
1
Microsoft
1/03/2021
31/05/2023
Total
2
Internal
Grants
Internal
Grants
N
Academic year
Prof. Shaher Momani
3
2021/ 2022
Prof. Samir Hadid
1
2021/ 2022
Dr. Elmuez Dawi, Member
1
2021/ 2022
Dr. Abd Al Karim Ismail, Member
1
2021/ 2022
Total
6
International Collaborators
The suggested external partners are as follows. Others may also be considered.
Name
Contact address
Dr. Viet-Thanh Pham
Ton Duc Thang University, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
Dr. Koichi Unami
Kyoto University, Kyoto, 606-8502, Japan
Dr. Adel Ouannas
University of Larbi Ben M’hidi, Oum El Bouaghi, Algeria
Dr. Sunil Kumar
The National Institute of Technology, Jharkhand, Jamshedpur, India
Dr. Rawya Al-deiakeh
Irbid Private University, Jordan
Dr. Jagdev Singh
JECRC University, Rajasthan, Jaipur, 303905, India
Dr. Shrideh Al-Omari
Al-Balqa Applied University, Amman, 11134, Jordan
Dr. Nadir Djeddi
Echahid Cheikh Larbi Tebessi University,  Tebessa, Algeria
Dr. Banan Maayah
The University of Jordan, Jordan
Dr. Rabha Ibrahim
IEEE: 94086547, Portland, United States
Dr. Shatha Hasan
Al-Balqa Applied University, Amman, 11134, Jordan
NDRC Activities
International Conference on Fractional Differentiation and Its Applications,  (ICFDA 2023)
Description
The ICFDA’23 International Conference on Fractional Differentiation and its Applications is a specialized conference on fractional-order calculus and its applications. It is a generalization of the integer-order ones. The fractional-order differentiation of arbitrary orders takes into account the memory effect of most systems. The order of the derivatives may also be variable, distributed or complex. Recently, fractional-order calculus became a more accurate tool to describe systems in various fields in mathematics, biology, chemistry, medicine, mechanics, electricity, control theory, economics, and signal and image processing.
For more information, please visit the official ICFDA 2023 website:
https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/icfda2022/about-icfda
Seminar: Combatting Predatory Academic Journals and Conferences their Impact on Arab Researchers
26 February 2024