URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/ifemh-2022
CONTENT:
The 2nd International Forum of Education and Mental Health
The Second International Forum on Education and Mental Health 2023 (IFEMH 2023)
23 – 24 February 2023
Ajman University's 2nd International Forum on Education and Mental Health - Women in Research (IFEMH 2023)
The forum intends to give academic staff, researchers, and other professionals a platform where they may express their opinions and discuss their own experiences working on studies that address various problems facing women and women's empowerment.
This year the forum also focuses on discussing social support, academic guidance and leadership opportunities that foster self-confidence, self-awareness, self-esteem of women and empowering them with the personal and professional development needed to succeed in college life and beyond.
The forum is a unique opportunity for you to hear from experts and practitioners about:
Women’s research in healthcare, and the educational opportunities for women
Women strategic leadership and how to manage the transition to new environment.
If you have any questions about the forum, please contact us at:
Email:
d.alsalti@ajman.ac.ae
Tel: +97167056813
If you want to stay up to date with our events, newsletter, and next forum
click here to register
.
FORUM AGENDA
Download Forum Agenda
ORGANIZING TEAM
Dr. Nahla Al Qassimi
Chair of the Forum
Dean of Student Services, Office of Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Dalia Bedewy
Co-Organizer
Assistant Professor of psychology and Manager of the Counseling Unit, Ajman University
Prof. Nadir Kheir
Co-Organizer
Professor of Pharmacy Practice and Manager of the Student Success Center, Ajman University
Ms. Doaa AlSalti
Administrative Assistant of the Counseling Unit, Ajman University
Ms. Alshaima Al Nuaimi
Office Manager of the Deanship of Student Services, Ajman University
KEYNOTE SPEAKER
Dr. Amany El-Sawy
Associate Professor of English literature and the chairperson of the English Department, Alexandria University, Egypt
H.E. Dr Maryam Matar
Founder and Chairperson, UAE Genetic Diseases Association
Dr. Michel E. Mawad
President of Lebanese American University, Lebanon
Dr. Nawar Al-Hassan Golley
Professor of literary and critical theory and gender and women's studies at the American University of Sharjah, UAE
SPEAKERS
Prof. Shaher Momani
Dean of the College of Humanities and Sciences, Head of Nonlinear Dynamics Research Center, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Mohamed Nasor
Dean of the College of Engineering and Information Technology, Ajman University, UAE
Assoc. Prof. Ts. Dr. Roslinda Alias
Director, UiTM Disability Services Unit, and Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Education, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Malaysia
Dr. Betty Exintaris
A Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences Education, Monash University, Australia
Dr. Gabriel Andrade
Assistant professor, College of Medicine, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Nilushi Karunaratne
Early Career Academic, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences Education, Monash University, Australia
Dr. Saileela Krishnan
Assistant Professor, Department of Education, Annamalai University, India
Dr. Smitha Dev.
Chair of Humanities Department for college of Arts & Science, Assistant Professor in Psychology, Abu Dhabi University, UAE
Dr. Yehia Mohamed
Associate Professor, College of Medicine, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Zehra Edis
Associate Professor, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Ajman University , UAE
Dr. Sanah Hasan
Associate professor, college of Pharmacy & Health Sciences, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Ahmed Awaisu
Professor & Head of Department, Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Practice, College of Pharmacy, Qatar University, Qatar
Dr. Ahmad Alzubi
Associate Professor, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Ansie Fouché
Professor of Social Work, Department of Social Wellbeing, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain City, UAE
Prof. Bushra Alakashee
Professor and Head of Education Department, University of Sharjah, UAE
Dr. Hanan Halaseh
Assistant Professor, Psychology Department, Isra University, Jordan
Dr. Jigna Stott
Clinical Assistant Professor, College of Medicine, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Kamran Arshad
Dean of Research and Graduate Studies, Ajman University, UAE
Ms. Khoula Al Riyami
Instructor, Department of Social Wellbeing, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain City, UAE
Dr. Krista Cooper
Assistant Professor of Social Work, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain City, UAE
Dr. Lina Almarestani
Head of the Department of Psychology & Associate Professor of Psychology, American University in Dubai, UAE
Dr. Maguy ElHajj
Clinical Associate Professor, and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Pharmacy, QU Health, Qatar University
Dr. Nalaty Martini
Senior Lecturer, University of Auckland, New Zealand
Dr. Rafidah Aga Mohd Jaladin
Associate Professor & a counseling psychologist at the Department of Educational Psychology and Counselling, Universiti Malaya, Malaysia
Dr. Saif Musa
Associate Professor, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Teresa Arora
Assistant Professor of Psychology and Chair of Psychology Department, Zayed University, UAE
Prof. vandana saxena
Professor, Department of Education, University of Delhi, India Fulbright Scholar-in-residence fellowship at Mississippi Valley State University, USA
Belal M.Ibrahim
Associate Professor, Head of Foreign Languages, College of Humanities and Sciences, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Nesrine Elsahn
Associate Professor, College of Dentistry, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Rasha Abdelrahman
Head of Psychology Department, Assistant Professor, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Yasser Alhenawi
Professor, MBA Program Coordinator, College of Business Administration, and Manager of Teaching and Learning Center, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Abderrahim Benlahcene
Assistant professor, College of Humanities and Sciences, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Alfreda Stadlin
Professor, Head of Basic Medical Sciences Department, College of Medicine, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Asma Al Arab
Professor, College of Humanities and Sciences, Ajman University, UAE
Prof. Marei Ahmed
Professor, College of Humanities and Sciences, Ajman University, UAE
Dr. Nihal Ibrahim
Assistant Professor, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Ajman University, UAE
Ms. Eiman Mohamed
AU Student, College of Medicine
Ms. Fatima Eisa Albanna
AU Student, College of Humanities and Sciences
Ms. Hajar Teir
AU Student, College of Medicine
Ms. Khadiga Yasser
AU Student, College of Medicine
Ms. Nour AlQaderi
AU Student, College of Medicine
Ms. Salwa Jamous
AU Student, College of Business Administration
Ms. Shahad Taisir Alkubaisi
AU Student, College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences
SESSIONS
Research on Educational opportunities for women (On-Campus)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_Uxop1eqeSceMXxNhbJJ3hA
Managing the transition to new environment (Virtual)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_zg7l7dYHTquqEZbhH2Zd1A
Women's Research in Healthcare (On-Campus)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_u8XfwfefQuOxqjtli-J-hw
Research on women's mental health (Hybrid)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_Gt87oCfiQCO7DOSuP8fSbQ
Research on the risk of burnout associated with the different roles of women (Virtual)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_iybB9sONREKfrRRB5yZycg
Women strategic leadership (Virtual)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_tiG87HyoQfeS5L-X3UfeJw
Research on women's mental health "Arabic Session" (Hybrid)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_8cC3AT3_Rau3i90hBb1kNw
Shaping research culture: women's role and influence (On-Campus)
Please find below the registration link.
https://ajman-ac-ae.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_mURO0y8rSymRCWwqOkSHtw
QUICK FACTS OF IFEMH
32
Speakers
8
Sessions
17
Universities
5
Workshops
12
International Speakers