URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/pharmacy/directory/staff/nihal-abdalla-ibrahim
CONTENT:
Nihal Abdalla Ibrahim | Directory
Menu
Home
About
Mission Statement
Strategic Plan
Code of Conduct
Contact
n.ibrahim@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 6265
Ajman Campus
Nihal Abdalla Ibrahim
Assistant Professor
Ext:
6265
CV
Dr. Nihal Abdalla Ibrahim is a clinician and physiologist. She earned her MBBCh, MSc, and PhD from the Faculty of Medicine with Excellent degrees and Honor's Awards. Her Master's degree was in Medical Clinical Physiology, with a concentration in Clinical Pharmacology and Clinical Biochemistry.

Dr. Nihal's PhD research focused on the recently discovered hormone, Ghrelin, and its relation to appetite, diabetes, obesity, and the metabolism of various types of macronutrients. She earned her PhD in Medical Clinical Physiology, and her thesis was accepted with Excellent grades. She also passed all the written, oral, clinical, and practical examinations for the Doctorate degree with Excellent grades.

Dr. Nihal has practiced medicine as an internist in Egypt and Dubai, UAE. She has also taught Medical Physiology at the Faculty of Medicine. Currently, she teaches Anatomy and Physiology at the College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences and in the Biomedical Engineering Department at Ajman University.

Dr. Nihal has several impactful publications in high-quality journals and prestigious conferences. She is the Head of the Events Committee at the College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences and is a member of various committees at both the university and college levels.
Education
PhD in Human Medical Physiology and Clinical Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria University, Egypt, 2009.
MSc in Medical Clinical Physiology (concentration in Clinical Pharmacology and Clinical Biochemistry) with Excellent degree and Honor's Award, Physiology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Tanta University, Egypt, 1990.
MBBCh degree from the Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt, with Excellent grade and Honor's Award, 1982.
Certificate in Computer Software Courses from The Technical Institute, Dubai, Ministry of Education (License 2/440 - 1991), Dubai, UAE, 1996-1997.
Experience
Assistant Professor, Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Ajman University, 2014 – Present.
Lecturer, Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Ajman University, UAE, 1998 – 2010.
Researcher and Physician, Dubai Medical Center for Treatment and Research, Dubai, UAE, 1995 – 1998.
Assistant Lecturer, Clinical Physiology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Tanta University, Egypt, 1991 – 1995.
Demonstrator, Clinical Physiology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Tanta University, Egypt, 1987 – 1991.
Resident Doctor, Internal Medicine and Pediatrics Departments, Students' Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria University, Egypt, 1983 – 1987.
Internship Trainee Doctor, Hospitals of the Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt, 1982 – 1983.
Teaching Area
Anatomy and Physiology I and Anatomy and Physiology II for Pharmacy students. Responsibilities:  Designing and updating all courses on Moodle. Using Interactive Anatomy and Physiology software. Developing and maintaining online course material (E-Learning, Moodle) with continuous updates. Including assignments and quizzes. Using the following innovative techniques and tools on Moodle: Turnitin assignments Educational videos and interactive techniques Visual and auditory approaches to explain the mechanisms of human physiology Computer simulations to describe various anatomy topics Clarifying difficult topics using Problem-Based Learning (PBL) approach Cases, quizzes, and crossword games Instructional Strategies to Enhance the Learning Process:  Turnitin assignments Educational videos and interactive techniques Visual, auditory, and interactive approaches Discussions Computer simulations Problem-Based Learning (PBL) Assignments and student presentations
Biology Course for Biomedical Engineering.
Practical Anatomy and Physiology Courses for Pharmacy Students.
Practical Anatomy Course for Biomedical Engineering.
First Aid as a University Requirement Course.
Fundamentals of Human Nutrition as a University Requirement Course.
Clinical Physiology for Medical Students, College of Medicine, Tanta University.
Human Medical Anatomy and Physiology
Medical Physiology
Human Anatomy for Biomedical Engineering
Human Physiology for Biomedical Engineering
Biology
Pathology for Pharmacy students
Research
The Role of Vitamin D Deficiency in Various Pathophysiological Aspects of Metabolism.
The Impact of Apelin Ligand Binding on the APJ Receptor and Its Effect on Various Physiological and Pathophysiological Aspects of Metabolism and Homeostasis.
Cytokines and Diabetes: The Role of the Cytokine Visfatin in Diabetic Neuropathy.
Ghrelin Hormone and Diabetes: Correlation Between Fasting Serum Ghrelin Level, Insulin, and Leptin in Type 1 Diabetes.
Pharmacological effects of different herbs.
Metabolic effects of Lagocephalus Scleratus toxins.
Variation in Serum and Salivary Secretion Composition Due to Various Toxins.
Effect of C. cerastus Injection on the Chemical Composition of Blood and Saliva.
Drug adherence
Gerentology
Obesity
Metabolic syndrome
Nanomedicine: The Potential of Nanocarrier-Based Drug Delivery Systems for Brain Targeting – A Current Review of the Literature.
Vaccines: Recent Strategies Driving Oral Biologic Administration.
Pharmacovigilance. An Exploration of Knowledge, Attitude, and Practices of Physicians toward Pharmacovigilance at Tertiary Care Hospitals in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, Pakistan
Skin Cancer: Awareness of Pharmacists and Consumers Regarding the Protective Effects of Sunscreens Against Skin Cancer.
Publications
Nihal Abdalla Ibrahim*, The Impact Of Apelin Ligand Binding On APJ Receptor on the Various Physiological And Pathophysiological Aspects Of Metabolism and Homeostasis. Europ J. of Pharm. And Med. Res., 2017,4 (01), 61-69.  ISSN 2394-3211 EJPMR Impact Factor 3.628
Ahmed Gaili, Sundos Qasim, Zakia Metwali , Nihal Abdalla and Sara Al –Akshar The Relationship Between Knowledge and Drug Adherence in Hypertensive Patients: A Cross Sectional Study in UAE. A J A D D  [4][01][2016]001-011 American Journal of Advanced Drug Delivery, www.ojadd.com, ISSN 2321-547X.
Ibrahim Nihal A*, A Effect of High Fat Diet and High Protein Diet on Fasting Serum Ghrelin Level in Type-1 Diabetes International Research Journal of Medical Sciences.   ISSN 2320 –7353 Vol. 3(6), 5-14, June (2015) Int. Res. J. Medical Sci. International Science Congress Association
Farajallah A , Abdalla N, Ahmed A , Abusnena S. The Relationship between Type 2 Diabetes and Total Ghrelin Level in a Population Sample in the United Arab Emirates. IOSR Journal Of Pharmacy (e)-ISSN: 2250-3013, (p)-ISSN: 2319-4219 www.iosrphr.org Volume 4, Issue 6 (June 2014), PP. 01-08 1
Metwalli Z, Abdalla N* , El Barrani R.  A Natural Alternative to Conventional Antibiotics. Res J Ph B Ch Sc. 2014  RJPBCS, ISSN: 0975-8585 July - August 2014, 5(4) , PP. 588-599
El Serougy M, Nihal A, Salma N, Madi M. Effect of crude toxin extracted from the Red Sea fish Lagocephalus Scleratus on salivary secretion in dogs. Bulletin of Egyptian Society of Physiological Sciences, 1992 March, 12(2), P. 101
Nihal A, El Serougy M, Salma N, Madi M. Effect of crude toxin extracted from the Red Sea fish Lagocephalus Scleratus on some aspects of carbohydrates and lipids metabolism in anesthetized dogs. Bulletin of Egyptian Society of Physiological Sciences, 1992 March, 12(2), P. 65.
Ebtesam Khalil, Nihal A. Ibrahim, Maher Al Shayeb, Syed Kuduruthullah, Mawada Hassan, Stress-related Oral manifestations disorders in a population sample of patients attending Ajman University dental clinics.Journal of International Dental and Medical Research,2020, 13(1)
Ibrahim NA*, Nabil N, Ghaleb S. Pathophysiology of the risk factors associated with osteoporosis and their correlation to the T-score value in patients with osteopenia and osteoporosis in the United Arab Emirates. J Pharm Bioall Sci 2019;11:364-72
Ibrahim NA*, Edis Z, Al Owais KS, Adherence of Geriatric patients and their beliefs Towards their medicines in the United Arab Emirates. J Pharm Bioall Sci. ,2020;12:22-300
Nihal Abdalla Ibrahim *, Zehra Edis, Klaithem Salem Al-Owais, ROLE OF PHYSICIANS IN DRUG ADHERENCE OF GERIATRIC PATIENTS IN THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES. Int. Res. J. Pharm. 2018, 9 (9)
Nihal Abdalla Ibrahim, Nada Mohamed Saleh, Fatima Koprulu* , Altaf Hani Abdulrahim ;Metabolic syndrome associated risk factors: Findings among female university students in the United Arab Emirates. J pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. Accepted. in press
Nurses’ Perception regarding Pharmaceutical Care Practice: a Qualitative Approach, Tropical Journal of Pharmaceutical Research, Accepted
Exploring Community Pharmacists’ Perception towards Responsible Provision of Patient Care Services : A Quantitative Assessment. Tropical Journal of Pharmaceutical Research. Accepted
Stress‑Related Oral Manifestations Disorders in A Population Sample of Patients Attending Ajman University Dental Clinics
Thyroid cancer risk factors and Pakistani University students’ awareness towards its preventive practice
Recent strategies driving oral biologic administration
Potential of Nanocarrier-Based Drug Delivery Systems for Brain Targeting: A Current Review of Literature
Mechanistic Investigations of Ellagic Acid via Topological and Functional Analysis of its Protein Interaction Network  LATIN AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PHARMACY 40 (6), 1273-1280
In Silico Prediction of the Mechanism of Radix Paeoniae Rubra against Menstruation Disorder
An exploration of knowledge, attitude, and practices of physicians towards pharmacovigilance at tertiary care hospitals in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan
Awareness of pharmacists and consumers towards protective effects of sunscreens against skin cancer
Efficacy of Oral Vitamin D3 Therapy in Patients Suffering from Diffuse Hair Loss (Telogen Effluvium) January 2021Journal of Nutritional Science and Vitaminology 67(1):68-71 DOI: 10.3177/jnsv.67.68
Clopidogrel-Vonoprazan Fumarate Interaction May Lead to Gastric Complications: an In Silico Prediction  40(1):126-156
The Impact of Oral Ciprofloxacin on the Structure and Functions of Rat Gastric Mucosa.
Conference Presentation
Abdalla, N., and Jamal, M. “Hemophilia: Is It a Real Threat in the UAE?” Dubai International Pharmaceuticals and Technology Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT. 7-9 March 2017. Poster Presentation.
Koujan, Gh., Ibrahim, N., and Ali, A. "Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice (KAP) Toward Menstruation Among Medical and Non-Medical Female Students at Ajman University of Science and Technology." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals and Technology Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT. March 2016.
Ahmed, A., Abdalla, N., Ali, A., and Abu Senina, S. "The Relationship Between Total Ghrelin and Type 2 Diabetes in a Population Sample in the UAE." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals and Technology Conference, DUPHAT. March 2014.
Metwali, Z., Abdalla, N., and El Barrani, R. "A Natural Alternative to Conventional Antibiotics." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals and Technology Conference, DUPHAT. March 2013.
Abdalla, N., and Magdy, A. "Ghrelin and Leptin: Are They the Future of Obesity Treatment?" Dubai International Pharmaceuticals & Technologies Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT, 12-14 March 2012, Dubai, UAE.
Abdalla, N., Munzir, M., and Al Hamed, N. "Osteoarthritis: A Recent Approach." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals & Technologies Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT, 12-14 March 2012, Dubai, UAE.
Abdalla, N., Cekir, N., Anwar, F., and Khan, A. "Food and Diseases: You Are What You Eat." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals & Technologies Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT, 12-14 March 2012, Dubai, UAE.
Abdalla, N., Hassan, N., and Mukhtar, M. "Ghrelin: Is It the Future Treatment of Diabetes?" Dubai International Pharmaceuticals & Technologies Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT, 22-24 March 2011, Dubai, UAE.
Abdalla, N., Habbobi, S., Nabil, N. "Osteoporosis: The Silent Thief." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals & Technologies Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT, 15-17 March 2010, Dubai, UAE.
Abdalla, N. "Ghrelin, Appetite, and Weight Control." Dubai International Pharmaceuticals & Technologies Conference and Exhibition, DUPHAT, March 2010, Dubai, UAE.
Abdalla, N., Mohamed, Kh. "Breast Cancer in the UAE," Dubai International Pharmaceuticals and Technology Conference, 10-12 March 2008, Dubai, UAE.
Seminar: "The Role of Bile Acids and Their Receptors in Metabolic Regulation," Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria University. Proceedings of the Physiology Department, April 2010.
Seminar: "Apelin: A Friend, Not a Foe," Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria University. Proceedings of the Physiology Department, March 2010.
Seminar: "Vitamin D Deficiency and Osteoporosis," Al Mushieref Medical Center, Ajman Medical District, Ministry of Health, UAE, 16 February 2012.
Seminar: "First Aid, CPR, and Basic Life Support," Al Mushieref Medical Center, Ajman Medical District, Ministry of Health, UAE, 12 April 2012.
K. El Morshedi, M. Buabeid, N. Ibrahim, "Histological Changes in the Endometrium of Female Albino Rat Uterus Under the Effect of Clomiphene Citrate," Abu Dhabi Pharmaceutical Conference, 2019.
Memberships, Awards and Honors
Member of the Egyptian Medical Syndicate.
Member of the Physiology Society of Medical Colleges.
Award for Supervising the Best Research Paper, The 9th Student Scientific Conference, Faculty of Pharmacy, AUST, May 2013.
Award for Supervising the Best Scientific Students' Poster and Presentation, DUPHAT, March 2013.
Award for Supervising the Best Research Paper, The 8th Students' Scientific Conference, Faculty of Pharmacy, AUST, 16 May 2012.
Award for Active Contribution in the Medical Program "Prevention before Treatment," Ministry of Health, Ajman Medical District, May 2012.
Award for Supervising the 2nd Best Scientific Students' Poster, DUPHAT, March 2011.
Award for Supervising the 3rd Best Scientific Students' Poster and Presentation, DUPHAT, March 2010.
Award for Supervising the Best Scientific Graduation Project, The 5th Students' Scientific Conference, Faculty of Pharmacy, AU, May 2009.
Award for Supervising the Best Scientific Graduation Project, The 4h Students Scientific Conference, Faculty of Pharmacy, AUST, May 2008.
Certificate of Appreciation for Active Contribution to the Gulf Education & Training Exhibition (GETEX 2011), Dubai, April 2011.
Certificate of Appreciation for Active Contribution as Assessor during the 7th Approach Student Scientific Conference, AUST, May 8-9, 2011.
Certificate of Appreciation for Active Contribution during the Anti-Smoking Workshop, AUST, December 8, 2010.
Award for Supervising the Eighth Best Innovative Poster, DUPHAT, 2018.
Publication