URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-ethics-committee
CONTENT:
Research Ethics Committee | Research at AU
Menu
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Ethics Committee
Ajman University’s Research Ethics Committee (REC) was established in accordance with the approved bylaws of Deanship of Research and Graduate Studies. Its purpose is to ensure that research work involving human or animal subjects follows specific ethical guidelines consistent with national and international standards. Ajman University and its researchers are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards and to foster values of honesty, rigor, openness, care and respect
REC members
Dr. Gabriel Andrade (Chair of AUREC)
, College of Medicine. Assistant Professor
Dr. Amine Bahi (Medicine)
, Assistant Professor
Geofrey Areneke
Associate Professor
Dr. Nihal Abdallah (Pharmacy and Health Sciences)
, Assistant Professor
Dr. Dalia Bedawy (Humanities and Social Sciences)
, Assistant Professor
Dr. Shaymaa Omar (Mass Communication)
, Professor
Dr. Naglaa Sami (Architecture, Art and Design)
, Assistant Professor
Ahmed Awan
Associate Professor
Raghad Hashim
Associate Professor
Elias Berdouses
Associate Professor
⁠Muhammad Sohail Zafar (College of Dentistry)
, Professor
Who needs AUREC approval?
All prospective researchers from Ajman University who will gather data from humans or animals are required to take prior approval from REC. Even if the collection of data were to be done outside Ajman University, we recommend in many cases to get ethical approval from REC, since the applicant will be representing the institution.
For external researchers, an REC approval is required if you wish to gather data from students, faculty or staff at Ajman University
Apply Early
REC meets on a monthly basis, typically the last week of the month. We therefore encourage applicants to apply within the first two weeks of each month, so that the application files are ready for the REC meeting by the end of the month
Expected time to respond
The REC will reply within two weeks after each meeting (at the end of each month). Reviewers may request modifications, and subsequent rounds of revision may be necessary
Requesting form by external applicants
Please request it from Dr. Gabriel Andrade,
g.andrade@ajman.ac.ae
For external applicants – In case of rejection
We encourage external applicants to comply with modification requests from reviewers. If the application is altogether rejected, the applicant is recommended to modify the application, and apply again.