URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/academics/academic-programs-majors/programs/master-of-science-in-clinical-pharmacy-msc-in-clinical-pharmacy
CONTENT:
Master of Science in Clinical Pharmacy (MSc in Clinical Pharmacy)
Menu
Admissions
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Academics
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Colleges
Academic Programs and Majors
Academic Calendar
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE)
Academic Advising
Faculty Handbook
Policies and Procedures Manual
Teaching and Learning Center
International Academic Affairs
Library
Research
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
Research at AU
DRG Councils
Research Centers
Publications
Research Ethics Committee
Info for Research Collaborations
Graduate Studies at AU
Research Policies and Procedures
Research News
Research Spotlight
Student life
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Media
News
Events
Media Report
AU Roundup
From the Desk of the Chancellor
About
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
Master of Science in Clinical Pharmacy (MSc in Clinical Pharmacy)
Total # of Credit hours
39
Welcome Message
Program Coordinator:
Dr Sanah Hasan
Associate Professor,
s.hasan@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 6222
Program Overview
Overview
The MSc in Clinical Pharmacy Program is consistent with university’s mission and aims to provide students with the knowledge and skills that will enhance their competency as health care professionals. This program prepares students to become eligible for the clinical pharmacist license.
The program also promotes the mission of COPHS in creating an environment that promotes excellence in pharmaceutical education, practice, and research. It is committed to the continuous improvement of its programs to keep abreast with the rapid advances in the profession of pharmacy and the provision of pharmaceutical care. It strives to prepare students to become competent, reliable, and ethical health care professionals. In addition, it contributes to improvement of the clinical pharmacy profession in the United Arab Emirates and the Arabian Gulf region.
Goals
The MSc in Clinical Pharmacy program is designed to equip pharmacists with the advanced clinical knowledge and skills to practice clinical pharmacy in various practice settings including ambulatory care, acute care, intensive care and long-term care facilities.
Program Objectives
The MSc in Clinical Pharmacy Program is designed for graduates holding a bachelor degree in pharmacy
The program aims to offer:
In-depth knowledge of pathophysiological underpinning of disease.
Knowledge to recognize the principles of safe and effective use of medicine in healthcare systems.
Advance skills in designing pharmaceutical care plans.
Life-long learning skills, critical thinking and problem solving abilities.
The ability to conduct applied research in the field of health sciences.
Program Features
The MSc in Clinical Pharmacy program provides pharmacists with the opportunity to contribute to the optimization of medicines use and pharmacy practice in diverse healthcare settings.
Offers an excellent job opportunity in various private and government healthcare institutions.
Taught by expert faculty in clinical practice, social pharmacy and leadership experienced in offering CME programs for practicing pharmacists
Delivered by experts with diverse experiences from America, Australia, Great Britain, New Zealand and other countries.
Competitive and affordable program with simple admission procedure
Offered in flexible timings including evenings and weekends
Graduates gain expertise in patient care, research and administrative skills
Modern curriculum with courses in Pharmacoinformatics and telehealth, Pharmacy management and leadership, in addition to advance therapeutic courses
Possibility of specialization in various clinical pharmacy fields
Variety of Joint Commission International (JCI) accredited clinical training sites with board certified preceptors
Suitable for both employed candidates and full-time students
Entry to practice with strong clinical pharmacy skills for new graduates
Accredited by the UAE Ministry of Education (MOE) and Commission of Academic Accreditation (CAA)
Admission Requirement
Admission to the MSc in Clinical Pharmacy program is open for graduates of accredited undergraduate degree in Pharmacy. For admission requirements, please click
here
Degree Completion Requirements
The MSc in Clinical Pharmacy Program is taught in 39 credit hours spread over four semesters (full-time students) with the  possibility of part-time enrollment. These include 37 credit hours of core courses (21 credit hours of college didactic requirements, 6 credit hours of thesis, 10 credit hours of experiential training) and 2 credit hours of program elective in experiential training.
Program Learning Outcomes
The following are the PLOs for the MSc. in Clinical Pharmacy program:
1) Knowledge:
K1. Discuss the pathophysiological underpinning of disease.
K2. Recognize the principles of safe and effective use of medicine in health care systems
2) Skills:
S1. Critique the literature and drug information from available resources.
S2. Design pharmacological and nonpharmacological, patient specific, pharmaceutical care plans.
S3. Employ evidence-based practice in clinical decision making.
S4. Implement a research project in pharmacy practice including designing, conducting, analysis of data and communication of results.
3) Aspects of competence:
Autonomy and Responsibility:
C1. Demonstrate leadership skills and innovative practice.
C2. Propose new and/or updated professional pharmacy practice services
Role in Context:
C3. Collaborate effectively with peers, research collaborators and other healthcare team members.
C4. Maintain ethical and professional conduct in learning, research, and practice
Self-Development:
C5.  Demonstrate skills for independent and life-long learning for continuous professional development.
Program Structure and Credit Hours
Program Structure (45 C.H) (Implemented from 2022-1)
Program Structure (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2023-1)
Program Structure (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2024-1)
Study Plan
Study Plan - Flow Chart (45 C.H) (Implemented from 2022-1)
Study Plan - Flow Chart (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2023-1)
Study Plan - Interactive (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2023-1)
Study Plan-Flow Chart (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2024-1)
Courses Descriptions
Course Descriptions (45 C.H) (Implemented from 2022-1)
Course Descriptions (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2023-1)
Course Description (39 C.H) (Implemented from 2024-1)
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept