URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/academics/academic-programs-majors/programs/bachelor-of-architectural-engineering
CONTENT:
Bachelor of Architectural Engineering
Menu
Admissions
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Academics
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Colleges
Academic Programs and Majors
Academic Calendar
Center for Continuing Education and Enterprises (CCEE)
Academic Advising
Faculty Handbook
Policies and Procedures Manual
Teaching and Learning Center
International Academic Affairs
Library
Research
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
Research at AU
DRG Councils
Research Centers
Publications
Research Ethics Committee
Info for Research Collaborations
Graduate Studies at AU
Research Policies and Procedures
Research News
Research Spotlight
Student life
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Media
News
Events
Media Report
AU Roundup
From the Desk of the Chancellor
About
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
Bachelor of Architectural Engineering
Total # of Credit hours
144
Program Overview
Bachelor of Architectural Engineering (BAE)
Architectural Engineering is “the art and science of engineering and construction as practiced in regard to buildings as distinguished from architecture as an art of design”. The program is designed to equip students with skills in building construction engineering and management of building construction projects with the understanding of various building systems and their integration. Students who are interested in working as architects who design buildings and advise in their construction should enroll in the Bachelor of Architecture program
The program goals :
Goal 1
: Provide a quality curriculum with synthesis in building construction/construction management, application level in building structures and comprehension level in building mechanical and electrical systems with an awareness of sustainability that will put them on track to leadership in the construction industry.
Goal 2
: Commit to social, economic, and environmental issues and practice high ethical standards in the profession.
Goal 3:
Prepare the students with knowledge of local needs to enable them to adequately compete within the local and international professional environments.
Goal 4
: Provide the community with highly qualified professionals with an awareness of basic concepts of architecture in the context of architectural design and history.
Program Coordinator:
Dr.
Alaa Eldin Hussein Ibrahim Abdou
Email:
alaa.ibrahim@ajman.ac.ae
06 705 5370
Admission Requirements
A minimum High School Average of 75% for Elite Track, 90% General Track or 80% for Advanced Track or equivalent in Standardized International Systems is required.
For details on admission requirements, including the English proficiency test, please click
here
.
Career Opportunities
The Bachelor of Architectural Engineering (BAE) program graduates can work in different consulting engineering firms, governmental agencies, construction companies and construction management. Furthermore, BAE graduates may pursue their higher education to enhance their knowledge and expertise.
Graduation Requirements
The Bachelor of Architectural Engineering is awarded upon the fulfillment of the following:
Successful completion of all courses in the curriculum.
Successful completion of the equivalent of 16 weeks of full time engineering training (internship).
Cumulative Grade Point Average CGPA of at least 2.
Program Learning Outcomes
Program Learning Outcomes for Bachelor of  Architectural Engineering
Knowledge
K1
PLO1
An ability to recognize and explain architectural design and history concepts
K2
PLO2
An ability to recognize mechanical and electrical systems and their applications in architectural engineering solutions.
Skills
S1
PLO3
An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
S2
PLO4
An ability to select, analyse and integrate building structural systems with their basic elements in architectural engineering solutions.
S3
PLO5
An ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering and computing tools necessary for architectural engineering practice.
S4
PLO6
An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
Competencies Autonomy and responsibility
AR1
PLO7
An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
AR2
PLO8
An ability to create architectural engineering solutions with synthesis level in construction/ Construction Management incorporating appropriate engineering standards and multiple constraints.
AR3
PLO9
An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration to public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.
Role in context
RC1
PLO10
An ability to apply the knowledge of architectural Engineering practice, ethics, and management in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
RC2
PLO11
An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.
Self-development
SD1
PLO12
An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.
Program Structure and Credit Hours
Please click here:
Program Structure and Credit Hours
Study Plan
Study Plan 2023
Study Plan 2025
Courses Descriptions
Please click here:
Courses Descriptions
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept