URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-at-au
CONTENT:
Research at AU
Menu
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research at AU
Using Metal Oxide Composite Nanostructures for Sustainable Energy Production
This project synthesizes and studies Composite Metal Oxides (CMO) nanomaterials for efficient visible sunlight driven photo-electro-chemical processes in order to aid the production of clean, renewable energy.
Diabetes and Covid-19 in Ajman Residents: Moving from News to Evidence-based Knowledge
A retrospective data analysis research study on people with diabetes, who were hospitalized for Covid-19, it aims to answer important scientific questions regarding diabetes and Covid-19 infection among residents of Ajman. One of these questions is whether people with type 1 diabetes (T1D) are as vulnerable as those with type 2 diabetes (T2D), to Covid-19 infection.
Communicating through Social Media in Times of Crisis: A Case Study of Ajman Police General Headquarters
Social media platforms are ideal tools for disseminating socially relevant messages and communications in times of crisis. This study was aimed at analyzing the practice of socially responsible communications by security institutions during the Covid-19 pandemic. The study undertook a detailed analysis of digital content on the official Instagram account of Ajman Police.
Theory and applications of Fractional Calculus in Investigating Covid-19 Coronavirus and Ebola Virus Infections
The focus of this research is on both the theory and applications of Fractional Calculus with the objective of developing a novel fractional calculus model for detection and segmentation of Covid-19 Coronavirus, in CT Lung Scans. It also aims to investigate the dynamics of the Ebola virus infections.
Does Stock Market Value Firms’ Soft Information?
The authors of this research have been investigating this question, from different angles, over the years. They relied on innovative techniques employing sentiment analysis and machine learning to quantify soft information. Here's a brief synopsis of the primary outcomes of this research.
Reliable and Effective Transdermal Optical Communication System for Crucial Biomedical Applications
In tune with the impressive recent advances in implantable medical devices (IMDs), the progress in optical wireless communications has paved the way toward the development of high-speed transdermal optical wireless (TOW) links for data and power telemetry with medical implants. This research explores how the use of TOW-based communications can be optimized for critical biomedical applications.
Investigating the Role of Tangeretin in the Prevention of Gastric Mucosal Lesions
The findings reported for the first time the gastroprotective actions of Tangeretin in gastric injury which were mediated via suppression of inflammation and oxidative stress, in addition to enhancing the antioxidant and cytoprotective defenses.
The Social and Psychological Effects of Inclusive Integration on Persons with Hearing Disability
A field study in collaboration with the Disability Resource Centre of the University of Sharjah to identify the social and psychological effects of inclusive education on students with hearing disabilities
Investigating Sustainable Urban Regeneration in Dubai with Analytic Hierarchy Process
This research investigates the planning for sustainable urban regeneration in Dubai and evaluates the relative importance granted to various aspects of infrastructure regeneration during the planning process.