URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/academics/international-academic-affairs#college-in-action-carousel
CONTENT:
Office of International Academic Affairs
Previous
Next
Office of International Academic Affairs (OIAA)
Experiences at AU
The goal of the Office of International Academic Affairs (OIAA) is to bridge the gap between the Ajman University (AU) community and international institutions, thus facilitating a global learning experience and enhancing visibility. AU is a pioneer for inclusion, innovation, and social impact. With more than 70 nationalities on campus, diversity is rooted within AU’s values. The OIAA aspires to add new outstanding meanings to the term. Alongside our partners all over the world, we offer academic experiences for students and faculty members.
Study @ AU
Study Abroad
Partners & Faculty
AU Faculty
What's happening at AU
More News
Dec                                06,
                                2024
Ajman University Celebrates the Success of the Actualizing Youth Mobility Program
Dec                                            06,
                                            2024
Ajman University and Mahidol University Strengthen Collaboration in Medicine and Research
Dec                                            06,
                                            2024
Ajman University and Temple University Renew Partnership to Expand Academic Collaboration
Nov                                            12,
                                            2024
Nature and Friendship: Strengthening Bonds and Embracing New Horizons
Nov                                            12,
                                            2024
From Wisdom to Wildlife: Exchange Students' Cultural Journey in the UAE
More News
1.75%
Top Universities
103
International Partners
Top 10
Safest cities
60th
Best Student cities
70
Nationalities on campus
09
Colleges
International Alumni
Drawn by the UAE’s boundless opportunities, Jonny has always dreamed of exploring the country. Now, halfway through his exchange semester, he’s embracing every moment of this life-changing experience.

"A semester abroad opens your eyes—to new cultures, new people, and even new sides of yourself," he shares.

We’re thrilled to be a part of Jonny’s incredible journey!
Jean-Luca
Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences - College of Engineering and IT
Germany
"My exchange semester at Ajman University was an incredible experience! I received a warm welcome from everyone at the university, and I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Hanine Bou Antoun for her unwavering support throughout the semester. She was always there to assist me with anything I needed. The students were kind and welcoming, making me feel comfortable right away. The social life was enjoyable, and I appreciated the diverse activities organized by the university. The courses were well structured, and the professors were highly competent."
Nadia Besrour
EPITA - School of Engineering and Computer Science
France
"It was an exciting adventure, filled with new experiences and valuable lessons. I loved learning more about the country's rich culture and its vision for the future."
Marielle Khoury
Holy Spirit University of Kaslik
Lebanon
"I had an unforgettable experience in the United Arab Emirates. The university gave me a warm welcome, and I had a wonderful time that I will always cherish. I loved the lifestyle, the country, the people, the food, and all the activities I experienced there. A big thank you to the university for this amazing opportunity and for everything they did for us, especially the staff who took such great care of us they are truly lovely and caring people. I can't wait to visit again!"
Omar Seba
EPITA - School of Engineering and Computer Science
France
"The trip was wonderful, with a warm welcome from Ajman University, excellent integration into the class group, and great support from the teachers. Alongside my friends, this travel experience has undoubtedly been the best one we’ve ever had."
Benoît Brice
EPITA - School of Engineering and Computer Science
France
Previous
Next