URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/admissions/admissions/why-au
CONTENT:
Why AU | Admissions
Menu
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admission Process
Undergraduate Student Catalog
Tuition Fees
Student Handbook
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Undergraduate Transfers
Non-Degree
Graduate
Admissions Requirements
Tuition Fees
Graduate Student Catalog
Student Handbook
Graduate Admission Policy
Graduate Transfers
Why AU
Office of Scholarship & Financial Aid
Office of Student Recruitment
Inquiry
Why AU?
In addition to conferring valuable degrees that lead to meaningful careers, we believe our role is to foster every student’s innate sense of curiosity and to inspire lifelong learning.
What sets us apart from other institutions is our unique culture of innovation and compassion.
Our students aim to make a difference with their hearts as well as their minds.
See yourself here!
One of the first six universities in the WORLD – and one of the first two in the UAE – to earn global accreditation from the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) in the UK.
Ranked #3 worldwide for international students and the #6 for international faculty members, per the 2025 QS World University Rankings.
Ranked #221 in Employer Reputation globally and #1 in the UAE.
Ranked #477 in the QS World University Rankings (QSWUR) 2025. Ascending into the Top 500 institutions worldwide.
Be yourself here!
Our 24 undergraduate, 13 graduate and 2 doctoral programs offer academic rigor as well as hands-on experience.
Learn more.
Most of our students participate in impactful service-learning programs in Ajman, the UAE, and beyond.
Learn more.
We have more than 100 student clubs, and dozens of co-curricular activities and events happening each month. We offer many sports teams and we have a new athletics facility for everyone to enjoy!
Learn more.
Our motto is “Make it Happen” and we deliver on that message every day.
Apply today!
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept