URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/health-services/medical-clinic
CONTENT:
Medical Clinic | Health Services | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Medical Clinic
About us
Health care delivery is a complex process. Patients come to us in a time of need; they entrust us with their lives and the lives of their loved ones. It is our duty and obligation to meet and exceed their expectations by delivering high quality care that is safe, effective, and timely. We will aim at delivering care that will attain the highest level of patient satisfaction and comfort.
Vision
Provide safe, efficient and timely patient-centered quality care.
Mission
The Office of Medical Services (OMS) is staffed with
qualified Doctors
and
Allied MOH licensed Staff
. It seeks to complement the academic mission of Ajman University and is dedicated to providing educational, supportive, consultative healthcare services to students, staff and eligible dependents. In doing so, the OMS strive to make the campus a healthy and safe place to study, work and live.
We provide compassionate care without compromise.
We support health awareness campaigns.
We engage in updates to advance knowledge and well-being.
Values
Compassion
Collaboration
Responsibility
Diversity
Integrity
Quality
Trust
Confidentiality
The University Health Clinics seek to complement the academic mission of AU and are dedicated to providing educational, supportive, consultative healthcare services to students, staff, faculty and eligible dependents. In doing so, the Health Clinics strive to make the campus a healthy and safe place to study, work and live.
Objectives
The objectives of the University Health Clinics are to:
Provide primary healthcare to students, faculty, staff and eligible dependents.
Provide emergency healthcare to hostel and campus residents after working hours, at weekends and on holidays.
Support the integration of university services and provide a healthy atmosphere to accomplish the university objective of a disease-free community
Provide high quality integrated health services in a timely manner to generate complete customer satisfaction
Services
General Medical Clinics Staffed with:
On Campus Main Medical Clinics (Female & Male clinics)
, and a
Hostel clinic
, to provide primary healthcare treatment and health education on common diseases.
Nursing:
Comprehensive nursing care and services, including routine and emergency cases, recording patient details and providing treatment.
Reception:
Receiving patients, preparing the patient files and records, recording personal data, preparing daily, monthly and annually statistics.
Referral System and Follow up:
Coordinating referrals for urgent cases to hospital specialists if necessary and following up chronic cases.
Carrying out medical checkups for all new students
by screening for any contagious disease assuring a safe and healthy campus environment.
Medical Insurance work for our staff members and their dependents
Collaborating with community organizations to conduct health programs and awareness raising activities including:
No Tobacco campaigns, Diabetes, Breast Cancer Awareness events…
Supporting students with
special needs/disabilities
who require assistance in their activities within the campus.
The AU
medical clinics’ services are free of charge
and available round the clock.
All health records, forms and documentations are
confidentially kept
.
The release or transfer of any medical information requires patient's approval, unless legally authorized, or in a life-threatening situation.
Contact Us
Medical Clinic Location: Student Hub Building Ground Floor
Campus clinic: 9AM – 5PM from (Monday to Thursday): 9AM – 1PM on Fridays
Female Hostel Clinic: 5PM – 9AM from (Monday to Saturday): 9AM – 9AM on Sundays
Contact Number: +971 6 7056294, 6 7056773, 6 7056733, 6 7056315, 6 705 6732
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept