URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-at-au/research-centers/healthy-and-sustainable-built-environment-research-center-hsberc
CONTENT:
Healthy and Sustainable Built Environment Research Center  (HSBERC)
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Healthy and Sustainable Built Environment Research Center  (HSBERC)
Introduction
In these contemporary times dominated by the knowledge economy, most of us spend the majority of our time indoors. The design, construction and operation of buildings have a direct impact on the health and wellbeing of building occupants. Indoor air has the potential of being contaminated through the presence of infected people, through building materials or, through contaminants and pollutants that make its way into the indoor environment. This could lead to a variety of building related illnesses. There is an obvious, yet often overlooked interconnectedness between decisions made by architects/engineers/interior designers and healthy living.
Ajman University’s Healthy and Sustainable Built Environment Research Center  (HSBERC) aims to do impactful research at the intersection of building, environment and health to promote healthy living across communities and societies.
The research at HSBERC is focussed on the following areas associated with building plan, design and construction:
Indoor air quality and disinfection of indoor air
Effect of Building Materials selection and construction on healthy living
Light and health
Architectural and Interior design and planning for healthy living
Occupant behaviour
Vision
The vision of the proposed Healthy Building Research Center is to improve the lives and wellbeing of buildings’ occupants in UAE, the region, and around the globe.
Mission
The mission of the center is to provide high quality research and services on how the design, construction, and operation of buildings affect the health and wellbeing of occupants.
Objectives
The objectives of the research center are:
To provide high quality research and studies on how the
sustainable design
, construction, and operations of buildings contribute to the health and wellbeing of occupants.
To provide consultancy services to the public and private sectors
To organize and participate in continuing education and training seminars and conferences for the community at large.
To collaborate with international partners on areas that are relevant to the mission of the center.
Composition
Research Groups
The center has three working groups:
Infrastructure
The HSBERC offers the following infrastructure and facilities to its members to enable high quality research:
Solar Decathlon House: The solar decathlon house serves as a space for experiments involving healthy homes.
UV-C meters with data logging capabilities
Spectro-radiometer to measure the energy for light sources in the UV-visible and near Infrared spectrum.
A color meter to measure color temperature of light sources and the effect of light sources on human circadian rhythm.
An indoor air quality meter to measure various metrics such as CO2, CO, Ozone, TVOC.
Researchers
Dr. Riad Saraiji
, Professor and director of the research center
Dr. Solomon S Senok
Dean of the College of Medicine
Dr. Ibrahim Bani
, Public Health Physician, College of Medicine
Dr. Afaq Chohan
Dr. Sahar Kharrufa
Dr. Naglaa Sami Mahmoud