URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research#index-carousel
CONTENT:
Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies
Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies
Previous
Next
Dean's Message
Welcome to the Ajman University’s Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies (DRG) website. This site aims to provide investigators with the information and resources necessary for conducting research. The Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies (plays an important role in promoting excellence in graduate studies and enhancing the quality of research and scholarship at Ajman University. Its particular focus is on achieving the first two strategic goals of Ajman University; ensuring excellence in graduate teaching and learning, and enhancing the quality, relevance, and impact of research and intellectual contribution.
The graduate programs offered at Ajman University prepare students to meet the demands of the job market in various disciplines and excel in their professional life. These programs reflect global trends and cater to the local and regional market needs. All graduate programs offered at Ajman University are accredited by the Ministry of Education and they are periodically updated to ensure their currency. The DRG provides its full support to continually improve the quality and effectiveness of existing graduate programs and launch new graduate programs including Doctorate programs.
The DRG has taken a number of initiatives to promote research at Ajman University. These initiatives include financial support to faculty in terms of AU funded  research grants, formation of research multidisciplinary research centers with provision of dedicated full-time post doctoral research associates, providing financial support to outstanding graduate students in all graduate programs, improving research infrastructure, facilitating research-active faculty to acquire research release time, supporting interdisciplinary research projects, providing research travel grants, promoting research at undergraduate level, and recognizing outstanding research contribution of faculty as well as graduate and undergraduate students. The DRG is also actively promoting enhancement of scientific engagement with external community.
This website has been prepared to provide information about the policies of DRG and description of its various initiatives. We welcome feedback from all stakeholders for continuous enhancement of graduate studies and research at Ajman University.
Prof. Kamran Arshad
Dean, Research & Graduate Studies
What's happening at AU
More News
Jun                                04,
                                2025
Ajman University Hosts Workshop to Enhance Graduate Research Supervision
Sep                                            19,
                                            2024
17 Ajman University Researchers Named Among Top 2% Scientists in Stanford University’s 2024 List
Nov                                            10,
                                            2022
Ajman University Faculty Members Recognized among Top 2% Global Scientists by Stanford University
Feb                                            22,
                                            2022
Ajman University Professor publishes an article with 99 percentile on Scopus with an impact factor of 9.471
Feb                                            18,
                                            2022
Ajman University Professor Ranked First in the Arab World in Mathematics by Research.com
More News