URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/student-life/center-for-inclusive-learning
CONTENT:
Center For Inclusive Learning | Student life
Menu
Deanship of Student Services
Office of Student Life
Student Clubs and Organizations
Fine Arts
Leadership Programs
Athletics
Student Publications
Office of Student Life Past Activites
Counseling Unit
Residence Life and Housing
Residence Services
Rooms and Fees
Residents Guidelines
Hostel Virtual Tour
Past Hostel Activities
Health Services
Medical Clinic
Medical Policy
Medical Check up Instruction
Staff Members
Medical Check up Form
Important Health Documents Links Procedures and Steps
Health Services Past Activities
Transportation Unit
Student Success Center
Peer Tutors
Faculty Liaisons
Student Support Resources
SSC Past Activities
Center For Inclusive Learning
Center For Inclusive Learning
Vision of the Center for Inclusive Learning
The Center for Inclusive Learning aims to serve as a leading example of inclusivity in higher education. Our vision is to establish a universally accessible campus that promotes the full engagement and contribution of every student, creating an academic experience and environment that is enriching for all.
Our Mission
The mission of the Center for Inclusive Learning is to ensure equitable access to educational opportunities by promoting an inclusive community that supports students with disabilities. Through this center, we aim to build a supportive, empowering environment that enables every student to achieve success.
Stories of Inclusion
Huda Mohammed Al Blooshi
Raneem Hamoude
Omar Abdelrahman Saber
Muada Babiker Ali Hamed
Mohammed Adel Muhsin Al Mimar
Maryan Hani Fahim Awad
Khalda Hatim Elbakri
Objectives
Facilitate proactive communication with faculty
to enhance understanding of the Center’s role on campus and improve the educational experience for students of determination.
Provide programs and information to increase awareness of disability issues and the accommodation process among students, faculty, staff, and families.
Create an environment where students of determination can acquire the skills and confidence to excel academically, socially, and professionally.
Support the integration of students of determination into the university community, helping them adapt to university life as active members.
Develop processes to help students enhance their academic and personal self-advocacy skills.
Promote a positive, inclusive culture towards people of determination, encouraging unprejudiced attitudes.
Assist faculty by ensuring that accommodations are administered effectively, preserving the academic integrity of Ajman University.
Maximize opportunities for students to participate in both on-campus and off-campus activities.
Facilitate the process for students of determination to submit complaints through proper channels.
Services We Offer
The Center for Inclusive Learning provides accessible, equitable, and inclusive academic experiences for students with self-disclosed disabilities through the following services:
Learning Access Plan Services:
Tailored accommodations to provide students with full access to the academic environment. These include classroom adjustments, exam modifications, and adaptive equipment to support diverse needs.
Exam Modifications:
Proctored exams for students requiring extended time or specialized equipment, ensuring a supportive and fair testing environment.
Alternative Text Formats:
Audio and electronic textbook formats to assist students with print or visual disabilities.
Assistive Technology:
Advanced tools and software for students with various disabilities, including screen readers, Braille printers, and specialized keyboards.
Acknowledgment
The Center for Inclusive Learning is made possible through the generous sponsorship of AWRostamani Group from 2025 to 2028 in honor of the late Abdul Wahid Al Rostamani.
This gift reflects a legacy of compassion, inclusivity, and commitment to supporting students of determination. We are deeply grateful for this partnership, which empowers Ajman University to foster a more accessible and supportive academic environment for all.
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept