URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/news/2022/ajman-university-faculty-members-recognized-among-top-2-global-scientists-by-stanford-university
CONTENT:
Ajman University Faculty Members Recognized among Top 2% Global Scientists by Stanford University | Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Archive
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
RSS
Ajman University Faculty Members Recognized among Top 2% Global Scientists by Stanford University
Thursday, Nov 10, 2022
Ajman University is proud to announce that 10 of our faculty members have been recognized among the top 2% scientists in the world by Stanford University. The AU faculty members were included in Stanford University’s recently updated database of top-cited scientists across the world, which was first published in the journal PLOS Biology in 2019.
Significantly, 4 out of the 10 faculty members were also recognized for their long-term performance and careerlong research impact, in addition to single year research impact in 2021. These include Prof. Shaher Momani, Dean, College of Humanities and Sciences, Prof. Khaled Assaleh, Vice Chancellor of Academic Affairs & Professor of Electrical Engineering; Prof. Mohammed Al Betar, Head of the Artificial Intelligence Research Center (AIRC) ; and Prof. Mohammed Deriche, College of Engineering & IT.
The other AU faculty members who were included among the top 2% scientists for single year research impact include Dr. Ahmed Bilal Awan, College of Engineering & IT; Prof. Mahmoud Al-Ayyoub, College of Engineering & IT; Dr. Amine Bahi, College of Medicine; Dr. Moawia Al-Tabakha, College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences; Dr Atta Ur Rehman Khan, College of Engineering & IT and Dr. Kelvin Afrashtehfar, College of Dentistry.
The database includes all scientists who are among the top 100,000 by c-score across all fields and/or top 2% of their discipline, based on the number of citations. The data was collected from the Scopus database of 6.8 million prolific authors out of which the top 195,605 scientists from the career-long database and 200,409 scientists from the single recent year dataset were analysed. The database is publicly available and provides standardized information on citations, h-index, co-authorship adjusted hm-index, citations to papers in different authorship positions and a composite indicator. Separate data is provided for career-long and single year impact. Scientists are classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields.
Commenting on the achievement, Prof. Kamran Arshad, Dean of Graduate Studies and Research, said, “The recognition of AU faculty members in the world’s top 2% scientists has placed Ajman University on the global map of science, technology and innovation and has brought great pride to the University and the UAE. I would like to congratulate all AU researchers for their hard-work, dedication, and commitment to furthering science. This is a truly outstanding achievement for our University, and I hope this number will further grow in the future.”
Back to All News