URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/research/research-news/news/2022/19th-ieee-international-multi-conference-on-systems-signals-devices-ssd-2022-co-chaired-by-prof-mohamed-deriche-college-of-engineering-and-it
CONTENT:
19th IEEE International Multi-Conference on Systems, Signals & Devices (SSD 2022) Co-Chaired by Prof. Mohamed Deriche, College of Engineering and IT. | Deanship of Research & Graduate Studies
Menu
Dean's Message
Contact Information
Research at AU
Research Strategy
Vision, Mission and Goals
DRG Councils
Publications
Research Policies and Procedures
Research Spotlight
Info for Research Collaborations
Local/Regional Research Competitions
Research Ethics Committee
Research Centers
Graduate Studies
Archive
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
RSS
19th IEEE International Multi-Conference on Systems, Signals & Devices (SSD 2022) Co-Chaired by Prof. Mohamed Deriche, College of Engineering and IT.
Friday, May 06, 2022
After some a memorable week of technical activities, the 19
th
IEEE International Multi-Conference on Systems, Signals & Devices (SSD 2022) came to an end. The conference was held online during the period 06-10 May, 2022, officially scheduled taking place in Setif, Algeria. The conference was sponsored/organized by a number of universities including: University Ferhat Abbas (Algeria), University of Ziane Achour (Algeria), University of Sfax (Tunisia), Leipzig University of Applied Sciences (Germany), Technische Universit¨at Chemnitz (Germany), Philadelphia University (Jordan), King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, (Saudi Arabia), and Ajman University, (UAE).
The response to the CFP was overwhelming. More than 500 full papers were received with 395 papers accepted for presentation. The total number of authors involved in the papers was 1298 covering 33 countries. The conference program was organized around 4 main tracks: Communications and Signal processing (18 sessions), Systems, Automation and Control (16 sessions), Power Systems and Energy (25 sessions), and Sensors, Circuits & Instrumentation (9 sessions).
The SSD continues to be one of the most prominent conferences in the region with an extended history of over 20 years. The conference also continued with its tradition of inviting plenary and keynotes speakers with renowned reputation. This list of plenary speakers included Prof. G. Alregib from Georgia Tech. (USA), Prof. Mousa Marzband from
Northumbria University
(UK), Prof. Saad Mekhilef from Swinburne University (Australia), and   Prof. Vicenç Puig from
Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya
(Spain). The program also included a number keynote addresses by established researchers form around the world.
The organizing committee takes this opportunity to thank all plenary and keynotes speakers, all participating authors, and all committee members who worked over more than a year to prepare for the smooth running of the conference. We look forward to welcoming more authors to participate in the conference next year for the 20
th
IEEE SSD conference.
Back to All News