URL: https://www.ajman.ac.ae/en/about/our-story-ajman-university
CONTENT:
Our Story | About
Menu
Our Story
Mission, Vision and Values
Diversity
Board of Trustees
Office of the Chancellor
University Cabinet
Accreditation, Rankings and Ratings
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Organization Chart
Explore
Fast Facts
Educational Objectives
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Sustainability at AU
AU Newsletters
January 2020
July 2019
January 2019
July 2018
January 2018
AU in the Media
Ajman University Hosts "ReThink Tank Summit" for University and Industry Leaders
Design Lectures Create Tech Clothing for People with Sensory Processing Disorders
Bio-engineering Students Develop “Smart Arm” for Amputees
Dentistry Students Share Skills in Nepal
Medical College Will Train Future Doctors with AI
Our Story - Ajman University
Ajman University: Making Things Happen Since 1988
Established in 1988 as the first private university in the GCC, Ajman University (AU) also was the first university in the UAE to admit expatriate students of both genders. Our institution continues to be a pioneer for inclusion, innovation, and social impact. In 2020, Ajman University became one of the first six higher education institutions in the world to receive global accreditation from the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA), UK’s independent body and a global leader in quality assurance for higher education. Additionally, AU is the first private and non-profit university in the UAE and the entire Arab region to be awarded accreditation from WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), a prestigious accrediting body recognized by the U.S.
Ajman University is now ranked #440 in the world and #6 in the UAE, according to the 2026 QS World University Rankings. This has been reflected in ranking Ajman University as 1st for international students in the UAE. Through its strategic partnership with leading companies and institutions locally, regionally and globally, the university is ranked #3 for Employer Reputation in the UAE.
In 2022, Ajman University became the first University in the UAE to get overall institutional
5 QS Stars Rating
along with 5 QS Stars in 8 categories.
The University offers 39 programs - 24 undergraduate and 15 graduate programs (including 2 doctorates), all of which are accredited by the UAE Ministry of Education. Our 9 colleges are focused on putting imaginations into action for the greater good. Our multinational faculty are experts in their fields, with ever-increasing research capacity. Over the last two years, six AU programs have earned prestigious international accreditations.
Read about all our rankings and accreditations here.
In addition to conferring valuable degrees that lead to meaningful careers, we believe our role is to foster every student’s innate sense of curiosity and to inspire lifelong learning. Our global network of 38,000+ alumni is inventing the future right now.
AU is a global university in a local community with constant mobility! Our diverse and inclusive cohort of students and faculty travel across the UAE – and around the world – to learn, teach, and make a positive impact.
What sets us apart from other institutions is this unique culture of innovation
and
compassion. We make a difference with our hearts as well as our minds.
Our motto is “Make it Happen” and we deliver on that message every day!
Cookie Warning
This website uses cookies to enhance the user's experience. By using this website, you indicate consent to our
privacy policy
.
Deny
Accept