Pharmacy College in UAE | Bachelor, Master's Degree in Pharmacy
Testimonials
Directory
Ajman University
Home
About
Mission Statement
Strategic Plan
Code of Conduct
Ajman
						University
Home
About
Mission Statement
Strategic Plan
Code of Conduct
College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences
How to apply
Dean's Message
Departments
College Programs
Faculty Members and Supporting Staff
Apply Now!
FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE
Journal Club
College Programs
Bachelor of Pharmacy (BPharm)
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 160
Master of Science in Clinical Pharmacy (MSc in Clinical Pharmacy)
Graduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 39
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN)
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 120
Bachelor of Science in Physiotherapy (BSPT)
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 129
Credit-bearing Micro Credential in Healthcare Management & Leadership Program
Graduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 9
Dean's Message
Welcome to the College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences (COPHS) at Ajman University which comprises a Bachelor of Pharmacy (BPharm) program, a Master of Science in Clinical Pharmacy (MS Clin Pharm) program, and a Bachelor of Nursing (BN) program.
Our academic programs are accredited by the UAE Commission of Academic Accreditation (CAA). Furthermore, the BPharm program received an international accreditation by the USA Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE). Our MS Clin Pharm program provides eligibility for licensure as a clinical pharmacist which enables graduates to compete for great career opportunities.
Per the prestigious Shanghai Global Ranking of Academic Subjects, we are ranked #1 in UAE by undergraduate subject: Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences.
We endeavour to be internationally recognized as one of the leading Colleges of Pharmacy and Health Sciences in the Arab World through the provision of innovative Pharmacy and Nursing education, training, impactful research, and responsible community engagement.
The COPHS stands as a leading institution of quality, in imparting knowledge, community involvement, and research, due to the collective efforts of its great team of faculty members and staff.
The COPHS provides excellence in pharmaceutical and health sciences, practice, research, and teaching through student-centric education, keeping abreast with the rapid advances in the professions, thereby preparing our students to become competent health care professionals nationally and internationally.
We are committed to providing an atmosphere in which our students may thrive, not only via demanding courses and hands-on experiences, but also by fostering their overall development. From unique learning opportunities and cutting-edge research initiatives to career mentoring and wellness tools, we're here to support our students every step of the way.
Professor Abeer Alghananeem
Dean, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences.
What's happening at AU
More News
Jul                                17,
                                2025
Ajman University’s College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences Shines at the Second Innovative Hackathon 2025
Jul                                            02,
                                            2025
College of Pharmacy Launches New Bachelor of Science in Physiotherapy Program
Jun                                            24,
                                            2025
Ajman University Faculty Honored Among Top 0.5% of Scholars Worldwide by ScholarGPS
Jun                                            19,
                                            2025
Ajman University Enhances Student Employability through Industry-Co-Delivered Session in Pharmaceutical Analysis
Jun                                            16,
                                            2025
The COPHS Conducted three BLS Workshops for Nursing Students
More News
Faculty and Staff
Ahmed  Nadir Mohamed Kheir
Professor, Manager of the SSC
n.kheir@ajman.ac.ae
067056216/5174
Richie Rashmin Bhandare
Associate Professor
r.bhandareh@ajman.ac.ae
067056227
Mufahida Younus Khan
Administrative Officer
mufahida.khan@ajman.ac.ae
067056207
Sai Hanuman Sagar Boddu
Professor
s.boddu@ajman.ac.ae
067056950
Zehra Edis
Associate Professor
z.edis@ajman.ac.ae
067056137
Samir Issa Bloukh
Professor
s.bloukh@ajman.ac.ae
067056250
Ala'a Mohammad Ibrahim Al Amiry
Senior Lecturer
a.alamiry@ajman.ac.ae
067056028
Anoud Ibrahim Ali Mandi Dhahrabi
Simulation Laboratory Technician
hr@ajman.ac.ae
Zainal Abedin Mohammad
Administrative Officer
z.ali@ajman.ac.ae
067056206
View more
Campus
Our Campus
Location Map
Quick Links
About AU
Academic Calendar
Accreditation and Rankings
Alumni
AU Blog
Careers at AU
Diversity
E-Learning
Global Partners
Mission & Vision
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan
Planning and Effectiveness
Sustainable Campus
Thamer Fund
Vendor Registration
Institutional Documents
Admissions
Undergraduate
Programs Offered
Admission Requirements
Student Handbook
Student Catalog
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Graduate
Graduate Programs
Documents Required
Student Handbook
Student Catalog
Graduate Admission Policy
+ 971 6 748 2222
AJMAN UNIVERSITY, P.O.BOX:346 AJMAN UAE
Connect with us
Copyright © 2003 - 2025 Ajman University
Last update - Jul 17, 2025