Best University For Business Administration | BBA Courses in UAE
Admission & Registration
Academic Calendar
Directory
Ajman University
Home
About
CBA Strategic Plan
News
Events
Contact Us
Ajman
						University
Home
About
CBA Strategic Plan
News
Events
Contact Us
College of Business Administration
How to apply
Dean's Message
Departments
College Programs
Faculty and Staff
Students' Achievements
Gallery
Apply Now!
College Programs
Bachelor of Science in Accounting
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 120
Bachelor of Science in Finance
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 120
Bachelor of Science in Management
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 120
Bachelor of Science in Marketing
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 120
Bachelor of Science in International Hospitality Management
Undergraduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 120
Micro-Master in Strategic and Digital Marketing
Graduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 12
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Graduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 30
Master of Science in Business Analytics
Graduate Programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 30
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
Doctoral programs
Total Cr. Hrs: 60
Dean's Message
Welcome to the College of Business Administration (CBA) at Ajman University (AU). As AU continues its impressive rise in global rankings, the College of Business Administration is also advancing, taking our programs to new heights of excellence. Our commitment to continuous improvement has been recognized through AACSB accreditation—an achievement that reflects our dedication to delivering world-class business education.
At a time when business schools worldwide are being challenged to demonstrate their relevance, AU CBA remains at the forefront, offering experiential and socially conscious education in a diverse, inclusive, and connected environment. With a strong emphasis on career success and holistic development, we equip our graduates with resilience, curiosity, agility, skills, and social responsibility—preparing them for an ever-changing world.
At CBA, we recognize the power of collaboration. Our college is an integral part of a dynamic ecosystem that connects academia with the public and private sectors, fostering mutually beneficial relationships. We actively break down barriers—between departments in the CBA, between colleges within AU, and between academia and the wider community. In doing so, we shape, and are shaped by, both local and global influences.
Whether you are a prospective student exploring your options, an employer seeking future talent, or an alumnus looking to reconnect with your alma mater, we invite you to join us in tackling real-world challenges and building meaningful partnerships. We are all in this together.
Gerard Prendergast
Dean
What's happening at AU
More News
Jun                                30,
                                2025
CBA Faculty Drive Ajman University’s Recognition as Strategic Partner in Ajman X Scientific Research and Innovation Award
Jun                                            22,
                                            2025
CBA Excellence Awards 2025
Jun                                            04,
                                            2025
Professor Gerard Prendergast Recognized as Professor Emeritus by HKBU
May                                            03,
                                            2025
Mr. Douraid Zaghouani Delivers Inspiring Seminar on Entrepreneurship and Business Excellence
Apr                                            29,
                                            2025
CBA Students Showcase Entrepreneurial Talents at AU Bazaar
More News
Alumni in Action
Graduating with honors in Accounting in 2021, I set my sights on becoming a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). My passion for learning led to a significant milestone in my academic journey. The journey was demanding, but with the support of my Accounting professors, I persevered. After two years of dedication, I'm proud to say I'm now a CPA. I'd encourage future students to consider pursuing professional certifications like CPA, ACCA, CFA, or CMA – they truly add value and open doors to countless opportunities.
Reem Musleh
BSc. in Accounting
My MBA journey at AU from 2019 to 2021 was highly transformational and enriching. Over two rigorous but fulfilling years, I had the opportunity to learn management concepts in-depth, get great insights into leadership and gain previously lacking soft skills. Beyond just academics, I learnt the true meaning of teamwork and forged new friendships which will last me a lifetime.
Ahmad Ghazi Hamed
Sr. Officer -Customer Experience, Sharjah Islamic Bank
MBA in Human Resources Management
Being a corporate professional, my preference was always for education that could link academic concepts with industry best practices and fulfil future skill needs. Ajman University provided that atmosphere where professors endeavoured to trigger critical thinking, communication, behavioural and analytical skills in order to bridge the gap between theory and practice. I was always encouraged to pursue intensive research and focus on continuous learning. Ajman University has laid a strong academic foundation for me without compromising on the quality of education and with the flexibility of time.
Almas Muhammad Shafiq
Learning and Development Executive, Beeah Group, Sharjah  /  Emotional Intelligence Coach Practitioner, NLP
MBA in Human Resources Management
I consider myself really fortunate to be in this position, so let me take you back on the journey of where it all started.

It has been a while since I graduated, 2009, with a BSc. in Marketing. I have developed several organizational and customer service skills during my journey at AU. My professors taught me to value my hard work and dedication and to believe great things are going to happen in my life. Through my years of work, I have learned more than I could have ever imagined… I have met people I would have never met, made new friends, and learned valuable life lessons. It is true that practice is really making the master. My advice to AU regular students and graduates, make your own future, your own hope. Infuse your life with action. Don’t wait for it to happen. Just make it happen!
Mahmoud Hussein Hindy
Business Development Manager, Johnson Controls International, KSA
BSc. in Marketing
Previous
Next
Faculty and Staff
Muhammad Hanif
Associate Professor
m.hanif@ajman.ac.ae
067056524
Gyanendra Singh Sisodia
Professor
g.sisodia@ajman.ac.ae
067056507
Muhammad Nisar Muhammad Sharif Khan
Assistant Professor
muhammad.khan@ajman.ac.ae
067055241
Ibrahim Elsiddig Ahmed Ibrahim
Professor, Head of Accounting Department
i.alsiddiqe@ajman.ac.ae
067056523
Akinola Olatunde Fadahunsi
Professor
a.fadahunsi@ajman.ac.ae
067056533
Osama Omar Mustafa Abu Salah
Lecturer
o.abusalah@ajman.ac.ae
067056728
Anshuman Sharma
Associate Professor
a.sharma@ajman.ac.ae
067056519
Hafez Ahmed Hafez Shurrab
Assistant Professor
h.shurrab@ajman.ac.ae
067055291
Antony Andrews
Assistant Professor
a.andrews@ajman.ac.ae
067055247
View more
International Accreditations
Campus
Our Campus
Location Map
Quick Links
About AU
Academic Calendar
Accreditation and Rankings
Alumni
AU Blog
Careers at AU
Diversity
E-Learning
Global Partners
Mission & Vision
Social Responsibility
Strategic Plan
Planning and Effectiveness
Sustainable Campus
Thamer Fund
Vendor Registration
Institutional Documents
Admissions
Undergraduate
Programs Offered
Admission Requirements
Student Handbook
Student Catalog
Undergraduate Admission Policy
Graduate
Graduate Programs
Documents Required
Student Handbook
Student Catalog
Graduate Admission Policy
+ 971 6 748 2222
AJMAN UNIVERSITY, P.O.BOX:346 AJMAN UAE
Connect with us
Copyright © 2003 - 2025 Ajman University
Last update - Jul 13, 2025